General Abyssal Charms
The following Charms count as Caste Charms for all Abyssals.
Excellence of the Dead Sun: (Ability) (•)
By feeding raw Essence into her inevitable triumph, the Abyssal may perform feats far beyond 
the human norm.
System: Select one Ability when purchasing this Charm. At any time, the player may reflexively 
spend 1 Mote to add (the Attribute being rolled + the Ability in question) dice to all rolls using 
this Ability for (Essence rating + 1) rounds in combat, or minutes outside of combat.
This Charm can be repurchased to unlock additional Abilities, but Essence must be spent to add 
dice to each Ability separately. Abyssals begin play with all versions of Excellence of the 
Dead Sun which correspond to their Caste and Favored Abilities.
Immortal Malevolence Revival (•••)
Though the grave she was Chosen to champion reaches up to claim her at last, the Abyssal may 
cling to her passions to battle on.
System: If the Abyssal dies in the course of protecting or fighting for one of her Intimacies, she 
immediately returns to life in a terrible swelling of darkness, as all the lights around her dim or 
die out. Her Essence pool restores itself to full, and she heals (Essence rating) levels of damage 
immediately. Immortal Malevolence Revival can only activate once per story.
If the Abyssal learns Immortal Malevolence Revival, she may never learn Unconquered Hero’s 
Faith.
Apocalyptic Effect: Upon her resurrection, the Abyssal swallows her anima into herself, 
transforming into the nightmare destined to end the Earth. She may manifest new clothing, a 
death-mask, alterations to the appearance and structure of her body, and two dots of the Uncanny 
Background (see p. XX) such as protruding bone spikes or the ability to project corrosive acids. 
While wearing this apocalyptic visage, she increases all of her Attributes by three dots. The 
transformation lasts for one scene, then abates.
After assuming her apocalyptic visage once, the Abyssal may activate it again in the future with 
a turn’s concentration (doing so heals her and replenishes her Essence as though she had revived 
with Immortal Malevolence Revival), but only once per story, and doing so negates the 
possibility of using Immortal Malevolence Revival during that story. Alternately, she may 
attempt to enact this transformation without “using up” the Charm for the rest of the story by 
spending 2 Motes and then making a difficulty 9 Essence roll, but in this case she does not heal 
or replenish her Essence.
An Abyssal must have Essence 3+ to purchase this Charm.
Unconquered Hero’s Faith (•••)
In another time, another life, the Abyssal was something more than this. Something bright. 
Something glorious. Something that brought hope rather than despair. Striking a fist against the 
black ice that binds her heart, she creates a crack for the light to shine through.
System: The Abyssal may force her Shadows and her need for the trappings of the grave to 
disappear for 24 hours. Doing so is considered a violation of the laws of the Nameless Curse, but 
her punishment for this transgression won’t begin until the 24 hours have elapsed.
The Abyssal may also give up one of her Charms for a scene, replacing it with a Solar Charm of 
the same rating from the equivalent Solar Caste (such as forsaking Corpse Graft Technique in 
order to gain Wholeness-Restoring Meditation). This also counts as a violation of the Nameless 
Curse, and an especially severe one at that.
If the Abyssal learns Unconquered Hero’s Faith, she may never learn Immortal Malevolence 
Revival.
An Abyssal must have Essence 3+ to purchase this Charm.
Dusk Charms
Corpse Shrapnel Retribution (•)
Resonance: Occult, Resistance, War
The Abyssal’s pain surges into the walking corpses she commands, transforming them into 
explosive instruments of vengeance.
System: Whenever the Abyssal suffers at least one level of damage, she may reflexively roll 
Willpower against difficulty 6. The Abyssal designates one zone she can perceive that contains 
zombies under her control. Those zombies issue a piercing scream, then explode in a grotesque 
and deadly shower of torn meat and jagged bone splinters. All characters within that zone must 
soak three levels of lethal damage. If the Abyssal commands a battle group of zombies, it suffers 
five levels of damage.
Alternately, the Abyssal may concentrate fully on her memories of past suffering, triggering this 
Charm without paying Essence or taking damage.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal may spend her action for the turn pointing at an opponent or 
an obstacle she can perceive. A black wind blows from her anima at gale-force strength, 
gathering up all zombies under her control within the area and blowing them to the point or 
individual she singled out; and then she may spend 2 Motes to detonate all of her zombies at 
once, forcing the target and everyone else in the same zone to soak (4 x Size of battle group of 
zombies detonated) levels of lethal damage.
Gasp of Dead Gods (•)
Resonance: Archery, Martial Arts
The Abyssal lets inevitability guide her attack, and it always strikes true.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote before making an attack. The attack automatically hits, no 
matter how well the opponent defends or how poorly the Exalt rolls; if the dice indicate that the 
attack should not strike true, then it hits anyway, with no threshold damage. Gasp of Dead Gods 
can’t strike through a perfect defense such as Death-Deflecting Technique, however, nor can it 
strike a target if there’s simply no way to reach them (such as if they’re on the other side of a 
wall, or outside of a weapon’s maximum range).
Apocalyptic Effect: The first time in a scene the Abyssal uses this Charm, its normal limitations 
do not apply: if she is certain of her target’s location, she may strike him even through solid 
walls so long as he is within the weapon’s maximum striking range.
Inauspicious Shadow Plate (•)
Resonance: Resistance
The Abyssal’s anima solidifies into ornate and personalized black armor that hardens around her, 
turning aside her foes’ desperate blows.
System: The Abyssal may reflexively spend 1 Mote to create a suit of mundane armor around 
herself. This armor persists until sunrise, and confers upon her the benefits of the trappings of 
death. Alternately, she may use her turn to gesture to a suit of armor she owns, causing it to 
vanish into a series of hissing shadows and reform onto her body, no matter how far away it was. 
If the Abyssal spends 1 additional Mote, her Shadow Plate sprouts a vast cloak of shadows 
which flows and moves on its own to deflect and entangle incoming blows, granting her the 
benefits of using a shield even if she is using a different fighting style.
Iron Sleet Attack (•)
Resonance: Archery, Melee, Thrown
The Abyssal imbues her weapon with the chill of the grave, leaving ice-rimed corpses in her 
wake which used to be enemies.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. During the next (1 + Essence rating) rounds, any enemy 
damaged by one of the Abyssal’s attacks is afflicted with a freezing curse, and suffers a –2 
penalty to all actions for the rest of the scene.
Owl Seizes Mouse (•)
Resonance: Athletics, Brawl, War
The Abyssal’s Essence luxuriates in the bloodlust of her foes, and drives her to ever-greater 
heights to meet and overcome it.
System: The Abyssal may reflexively spend 1 Mote to cut ahead and attack before any of her 
opponents for the next (highest of Brawl, Martial Arts, or Melee, minimum 1) rounds.
Rapacious Lamprey Technique (•)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts
If the Abyssal enfolds an opponent into her grasp, she may reduce him to vacuum-compressed 
flesh and dry bones in a matter of moments.
System: The Abyssal locks herself in a deadly embrace with an opponent, sinking her fangs into 
them and draining them at a ghastly rate. Upon landing a successful attack with her fangs, the 
Exalt may choose to lock herself and her target in place. Unless she voluntarily relinquishes the 
power of this Charm, neither can move from the zone they currently occupy until the Abyssal
has taken another (Essence rating) turns. The Abyssal inflicts damage with her fangs as normal, 
but this damage still counts as blood-drinking without being limited to a single level per round as 
is normally the case when sucking blood, meaning that if the target is mortal, she regains 1 Mote 
after inflicting three levels of lethal damage, and 1 additional Mote when if she drinks the target 
to death. While Rapacious Lamprey Technique persists, the Abyssal may opt not to roll to attack 
her target if she desires, instead automatically scoring (Essence rating) successes with a bite
attack on each of her turns.
Attacking anyone other than her grappled target immediately ends Rapacious Lamprey 
Technique. Each time the Abyssal is struck by an attack, the duration of Rapacious Lamprey 
Technique is cut short by one round.
Apocalyptic Effect: When the Abyssal latches onto a victim with Rapacious Lamprey 
Technique, she may spend 1 Willpower to cause her entire body to momentarily sprout fangs 
from every conceivable angle and detail of anatomy: the palms of her hands, the tips of her 
elbows, the hollow of her throat, from all over her chest and stomach and legs: everywhere. Her 
damage rolls to drink blood reduce their difficulty by –2.
Relic Weapon Enchantment (•)
Resonance: Archery, Melee, Thrown, War
The Abyssal may draw a weapon from the memoriam of the Underworld, or infuse her Essence 
into a ghostly item to give it temporary substance in the living world.
System: By taking an action and spending 1 Mote, the Abyssal can summon any manner of 
phantasmal but still entirely deadly personal-scale mundane weapon she desires out of the depths 
of the Underworld; this weapon persists for the rest of the scene, but becomes insubstantial and 
useless in any hands save her own. Created weapons may be anything from a bloodstained whip 
to a bow of pale wood which fires bone-tipped arrows. Created ranged weapons enjoy effectively 
limitless ammunition. Alternately, an Abyssal may reflexively spend 1 Mote to charge an 
existing ranged weapon with power, granting it infinite ammunition for the rest of the scene. 
Firewands form an exception. Created firewands, or those firing phantom firedust, require a turn 
spent in concentration to create additional packets of phantom firedust after every (Essence 
rating) shots.
Finally, the Abyssal may pay 1 Mote when carrying a ghostly item from the Underworld into 
Creation, granting it solidity and preventing it from being destroyed by the touch of sunlight for 
one full cycle of the moon.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal plunges a fist into her own chest and draws forth a terrible 
relic forged from the stuff of her own soul. She may reflexively call this weapon to hand at any 
time, or discard it back into the depths of her Essence at no cost. This weapon is completely 
indestructible, and has the traits of an artifact rather than mundane weapon. The weapon is 
always the same every time; if she wishes to summon a different weapon (a knife in a tight room 
where her great two-handed soul axe will be of little use, for example) she must use Relic 
Weapon Enchantment normally.
Soul-Cleaving Strike (•)
Resonance: Archery, Martial Arts, Melee, War
The Abyssal’s attacks flicker with phantasmal Essence, cleaving effortlessly through armor and 
sapping the vitality of those she strikes down.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to cause all attacks the Abyssal launches until the end of the 
current round to inflict aggravated damage.
Ancestral Guardian Stance (••)
Resonance: Martial Arts, Melee, Resistance, War
Drawing close to one she is not yet ready to surrender to the inevitable, the Abyssal strikes aside 
all that threatens him.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to apply a protect action to someone in the same zone that the 
Abyssal has an Intimacy toward. This protection continues until one of the characters moves to a 
different zone.
Artful Maiming Onslaught (••)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts
The Abyssal’s attacks maim and rend apart her opponent’s body, leaving gory devastation in her 
wake.
System: If one of the Abyssal’s attacks inflicts at least three levels of lethal or aggravated 
damage after soak, the player may reflexively pay 1 Mote to amputate one of an antagonist’s 
limbs or to destroy a more targeted part of their anatomy (such as blinding or castrating them). 
Protagonists targeted with this Charm may be blinded or have a limb disabled, but not 
permanently removed unless the player agrees to it; the disabling of the limb or organ heals when 
the associated wound does.
Apocalyptic Effect: When the Abyssal kills an opponent, she may opt to describe the 
ludicrously overkill gruesome method of their demise (splitting them vertically from ankle to 
brow, for example; or plunging a fist down their throat and tearing out a fistful of innards). All 
enemies who witness this ghastly spectacle increase the difficulty of all actions they take by +1 
for the rest of the battle. Repeated demonstrations of the Abyssal’s cruelty do not intensify this 
penalty.
Contemptuous Riposte (••)
Resonance: Martial Arts, Melee
The Abyssal surrounds herself with a freezing miasma that slows incoming attacks just enough 
for her to knock them aside with contemptuous ease.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For the next (Essence rating) rounds, 
all attacks directed against the Abyssal must roll against difficulty 9 after all other modifiers, 
save for unblockable attacks.
Death-Deflecting Technique (••)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts, Melee
The Abyssal strikes out, smashing aside any single attack of which she is aware.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower in response to an attack or similar form of 
imminent danger. The attack fails to strike the Abyssal without any further dice rolls. Area-ofeffect attacks and the like harmlessly splash around her Essence-fueled defense. If she parries 
with a mortal weapon, and the attack is either unblockable or ludicrously powerful (the warspear of the Unconquered Sun, a Solar Circle death spell, a meteor torn from the heavens and 
hurled upon her) then her weapon shatters unless it is itself imperishable.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal’s invincibility makes her foes lose heart. Anyone whose attack 
is knocked away by Death-Deflecting Technique increases the difficulty of all attack rolls 
against the Abyssal by +1 for the rest of the scene, unless they spend a point of Willpower to 
firm up their convictions. If this would raise the difficulty to attack the Abyssal above 9, then
they instead lose two dice from their attack pools.
Doom Drawn and Imminent (••)
Resonance: Archery, Thrown
Trusting to the inevitability of the grave, the Abyssal fires on her target, and the distance is never 
any greater than that between a man and his death.
System: If the character spends a point of Willpower to lower the difficulty of a ranged attack, 
then that attack gains unlimited range and can strike a target any number of zones away. If the 
Abyssal can see her target, she can kill him.
Apocalyptic Effect: By setting her killing intent upon a foe, the Abyssal max fixate her senses 
upon him and continue to track him even as he moves out of her line of sight. She can smell his 
blood, hear his heartbeat, and pinpoint his location even as he walks through the depths of a 
building or boards a covered wagon. So long as she remains ready to fire, she may track her 
target indefinitely, until he emerges into the open and her shot becomes possible, at which point 
she automatically attacks first in the round.
Reaper of Men (••)
Resonance: Archery, Melee, Presence, War
The Abyssal’s arrows and blades unerringly seek the coward’s heart, putting an end to his fear.
System: Whenever the Abyssal attacks someone who has an Intimacy of fear toward her, or who 
is currently feeling overwhelming terror for any reason, the difficulty of her damage rolls are 
reduced by –2.
Slashing Ghost Talon (••)
Resonance: Archery, Brawl, Melee
When the Abyssal focuses her killing intent on a single foe, there is no hope of survival.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. Whenever an attack the Abyssal makes during the rest of the 
round succeeds, count those successes twice when adding them to the attack’s threshold damage.
Apocalyptic Effect: When the Abyssal takes a moment to concentrate her skills and Essence 
into a blow, no mere object of the world may withstand it. The Abyssal never needs to roll to 
strike at an object with a bladed weapon; her blow cleaves through the object as though it were 
made of mist, inflicting damage appropriate to the angle of her strike and the length of her blade. 
This effect has no regard for how hard an object is, or how strongly warded against damage by 
magic, though it will still only cut physical objects, not patterns of magic, logic of the world, or 
other ephemera. Her attacks enhanced with Savage Ghost Talon become unblockable: 
protagonists cannot apply their Parry defense, while antagonists lower their Defense by –2 
against such attacks.
Splinter of the Void (••)
Resonance: Archery, Thrown
Taking a moment to pin an opponent in her sights, the Abyssal fires a tiny splinter of oblivion 
itself. Should her shot strike true, her target is poisoned by the Essence of absolute nothingness, 
unmaking them from the inside-out. Those slain by this Charm rot away as though hundreds 
years had passed in a matter of heartbeats.
System: The Abyssal spends 1 Mote and makes a ranged attack. Its base damage in increased by 
the Abyssal’s (higher of Archery or Thrown) + Essence, and the damage is aggravated.
Apocalyptic Effect: If an opponent dies while suffering under the effects of Splinter of the Void, 
the Abyssal may reflexively pay 1 Mote to catalyze the cursed power within them. The victim’s 
corpse collapses into a churning hole in the fabric of reality. Everyone but the Abyssal within the 
same zone must succeed at a reflexive Stamina + (Athletics or Resistance) roll against difficulty 
8 or soak four levels of aggravated damage as they are flayed by the edges of this brief pulse of 
annihilation. Anyone who fails also cannot move out of the zone during that round. The pulse 
repeats itself at the beginning of each round until (Essence rating) rounds have passed, at which 
point it fades away.
Crimson Banquet Method (•••)
Resonance: Brawl, War
The Abyssal renews herself on the suffering and death of her opponents.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For the rest of the scene, whenever the 
Abyssal inflicts at least three levels of damage with a single attack, or whenever she kills an 
opponent, she heals two levels of bashing damage or one level of lethal damage as she absorbs 
their departing vitality. If she drains someone to death with her fangs, she may immediately heal 
all bashing damage, or three levels of lethal damage, or one level of aggravated damage.
Apocalyptic Effect: Each instance of absorbing death or injury in this fashion nourishes the 
Abyssal as though it were a day’s worth of food and water. She may sustain herself entirely on 
blood if she wishes, gaining all of the necessary nutrition to remain alive and healthy thereby.
Eye of the Tempest (•••)
Resonance: Martial Arts, Melee
Letting her Essence rise up to claim her consciousness, the Abyssal perceives her opponents’ 
killing intent as seething crimson arcs and splashes that tell her where their attacks are about to 
occur.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For the next (1 + Essence rating) 
rounds, the Abyssal’s Parry value is increased by +2. If this would raise her Defense above 9, her 
attackers are forced to discard one success from their attacks.
Each result of 1 rolled on attacks against her subtracts one from that attack’s base damage while 
this Charm is active.
The Abyssal cannot have both Eye of the Tempest and Incomparable Phantom Form active at the 
same time.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal may send her own killing intent out as a wave that pushes at 
her foes, revealing in an unguarded moment that which they most fear she will take from them. 
The Abyssal may take a turn to focus her bloodlust, then roll Perception + (highest of Brawl, 
Melee, or Empathy) against a difficulty of the Willpower rating of the one she means to probe. 
Success causes that which her target most fears to lose or most desperately wishes to prevent 
from coming to harm to be limned in a golden corona to the Abyssal’s eyes.
Glorious Carnage Typhoon (•••)
Resonance: Archery, Melee, Thrown
The Abyssal becomes a black wind ravening through her opponents, leaving only blood trails 
and screams to mark her passage.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote upon making an attack that marks off its target’s 
Incapacitated health box. The Abyssal may immediately launch another attack at an enemy 
within reach of her weapon at the end of the turn, after all other characters have acted. If she 
incapacitates that enemy as well, she might potentially invoke Glorious Carnage Typhoon again, 
attacking immediately. It can be used a number of times per round equal to the Exalt’s Essence 
rating.
Alternately, spend 2 Motes and use the Abyssal’s turn to launch an attack against a battle group. 
The difficulty of this attack is lowered by two, and if successful, it adds (rating of Ability used to 
attack) levels after rolling damage, before the target applies soak.
Hardened Killer Training Technique (•••)
Resonance: War
By putting a mortal through a dedicated training regimen, the Abyssal can transform him into a 
precision-built vehicle for violence.
System: The Abyssal dedicates herself to leading a group of would-be soldiers through a daily 
regimen of drills and training exercises taking up at least one hour over the course of two weeks. 
She can dedicate her efforts to the training of a group of up to Size (current Essence rating + 1, 
maximum 5) at a time. While she’s actively training a group of Hardened Killers, her maximum 
Mote pool is reduced by one. She can reclaim this capacity by abandoning her students’ training, 
but if she does this and returns to their tutelage later, she must start their training over from 
scratch.
After two weeks, clueless farmers gain the battle profile of professional soldiers (see p. XX), and 
when fighting as a unit enjoy Drill 8. Already-qualified soldiers, even green ones, gain the battle 
profile of elite troops and when fighting as a unit enjoy Drill 8. Elite troops subjected to this 
training gain the battle profile of Tiger Warriors, and when fighting as a unit enjoy Drill 9. A 
group of fighters may be run through this training regimen repeatedly to hone them from 
civilians to Hardened Killers, if the Abyssal has sufficient time and inclination.
When a Hardened Killer is slain in the Abyssal’s presence, they rise up at the end of the 
following turn as a zombie under her control. The Abyssal can also use this Charm to train a 
pack of zombies she controls, though they can only improve their Expertise Pool by +2 as a 
result of this training.
If a protagonist partakes of Hardened Killer training, then after two weeks of training they may 
purchase one dot of Athletics, Archery, Brawl, Martial Arts, Melee, Resistance, Ride, Thrown, 
or War as though it were a Favored Ability.
Apocalyptic Effect: Whenever the Abyssal leads her Hardened Killers in battle, they treat their 
Size as though it were one higher than it truly is for the purpose of all Size-derived modifiers, 
and enjoy perfect morale.
Unfurling Iron Lotus (•••)
Resonance: Martial Arts, Melee, War
The Abyssal’s weapon leaves black contrails around her which momentarily resemble a black 
flower in the moment before the pattern erupts into a cacophony of her foes’ spilled blood.
System: Spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower and make a Brawl, close-range Martial Arts, or Melee
attack. The Abyssal makes a single attack roll against the highest Defense rating in the zone she 
occupies, and applies its result to everyone else in it, friend and foe alike.
Alternately, spend 1 Mote and use the Abyssal’s turn to launch a Brawl, close-range Martial 
Arts, or Melee attack against a battle group. Double the attack’s base damage.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal restrains her bloodlust and refines her technique so that her 
killing pattern avoids her allies and only targets her enemies.
Writhing Blood-Chain Technique (•••)
Resonance: Brawl, War
Lashing chains of iron-hard congealed blood erupt from the Abyssal’s back, shoulders, or waist, 
each tipped with a razor-sharp claw.
System: Reflexively spend 2 Motes and suffer one unsoakable, unavoidable level of lethal 
damage. At the end of the round, after all other characters have acted, roll an extra (Strength or 
Dexterity) + (Brawl or Martial Arts) attack with base damage 5L against a single opponent in the 
same zone. This Charm persists for the Abyssal’s (Essence rating x 2) in rounds.
Apocalyptic Effect: Whenever the Abyssal is the Underworld or a shadowland, using Writhing 
Blood-Chain Technique not only causes the described effect, it also calls ghostly chains out of 
the shadows, or summons them forth from the earth, permitting her to use the extra attack of her 
Blood-Chain to attack opponents up to one zone away.
Midnight Charms
Agony as Armor Attitude (•)
Resonance: Resistance
Where pain weakens lesser beings, it cures and hardens the Abyssal’s flesh, until in the worst 
extremities of agony her skin becomes hard as a granite headstone.
System: When the Abyssal suffers a wound penalty, its value is added as bonus dice to all of her 
soak rolls. If some other effect negates the wound penalty, such that it does not trouble her other 
rolls, it provides no soak bonus.
Command the Dead (•)
Resonance: Presence
Exerting the combined pressure of Essence and will, the Abyssal may order the bodies of the 
fallen to stand and do her bidding.
System: The player spends 1 Mote and rolls Charisma + Presence. If attempting to usurp control 
of a zombie or similar mindless corpse-servant from another necromancer, the difficulty is the 
controlling character’s Willpower. If attempting to exhort a corpse to stand up and serve her, the 
difficulty is 6. A zombie created or commandeered with this Charm will obey the Abyssal’s 
commands to the best of its very limited abilities.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal may close her eyes, spend at least a turn shutting out the world 
around her, and roll Perception + Awareness against difficulty 7 to perceive the world through 
the senses of a zombie under her control for as long as she continues to concentrate on doing so. 
Furthermore, she may issue commands to zombies that she controls mentally, across any 
distance.
Corpse Pawn Sacrifice (•)
Resonance: Occult, Resistance
When death comes to reclaim the Abyssal, she may feed it her pawns in her stead.
System: When and only when the Abyssal is about to mark lethal or aggravated damage in her 
Incapacitated health box, she may negate the incoming damage by feeding it the animating 
magic of zombies that she controls. All zombies currently under her control instantly tumble to 
the ground, bereft of animation and bearing the marks of whatever wound their expenditure 
prevented from slaying the Abyssal. This Charm cannot be used while the Abyssal has run out of 
either Motes or Willpower points, if she controls no zombies, nor against attacks that are 
specifically anathema to creatures of darkness, such as Edge of Morning Sunlight (see p. XX).
Haunting Inflection Trick (•)
Resonance: Empathy, Presence, Socialize
The Abyssal’s speech takes on otherworldly importance, like the words of an angel or a voice 
from a deep black tomb.
System: By spending 1 Mote, the Abyssal’s words become impossible to ignore, and she reduces 
the difficulty of all social rolls by –2 (to a minimum of 3) for the rest of the scene.
Apocalyptic Effect: Select a social Attribute (Charisma, Manipulation, or Appearance). The 
Abyssal becomes an avatar of ethereal beauty, otherworldly authority, or exudes a dark 
magnetism that draws others in even against their better judgment. All rolls using the selected 
Attribute permanently reduce their difficulty by two.
Lesser Horrors Scorned (•)
Resonance: Empathy, Presence, Resistance
Those who would seek to know the Abyssal’s thoughts or take a measure of her spirit gaze upon 
the void, and find that it gazes also into them.
System: This Charm doesn’t prevent the Abyssal’s mind from being read, nor her soul analyzed 
or evaluated. It does exact a price from anyone who would dare to do so. Whenever a character 
reads the Abyssal’s mind, or use a Charm to gain insight into her personality (such as to learn her 
Nature) or Essence, they must make a reflexive Willpower roll against difficulty 9. Failure 
inflicts a derangement upon them (see p. XX) as they unwittingly find themselves coming into 
contact with the corrosive Essence of oblivion. This derangement lasts for (Abyssal’s Essence 
rating) weeks.
Lesser Horrors Scorned doesn’t activate in response to mundane attempts to intuit the Abyssal’s 
intentions, even those backed with an “Excellence”-type Charm.
Apocalyptic Effect: Lesser Horrors Scorned does trigger in response to mundane attempts to 
intuit the Abyssal’s intentions.
Morbid Fascination Style (•)
Resonance: Performance, Presence
The Abyssal unnerves or fascinates her audience, fixing their attention upon her; they are too 
allured or frightened to turn away. While they may not like or believe what she has to say, nor 
enjoy her performance, they will neither leave her presence, heckle her, nor cease paying 
attention to her before she’s had her say.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll (Charisma or Appearance) + Performance against difficulty 3. 
Anyone whose Willpower or Resolve rating is equal to or lower than the successes rolled falls 
under this Charm’s sway until the end of the Abyssal’s performance. They can still be distracted 
by violence or urgent demands such as someone stealing their coinpurse.
Ox-Body Technique (•)
Resonance: Resistance
Having died once, the Abyssal is exceedingly difficult to kill again.
System: The character permanently gains an additional set of (–0), (–1), and (–2) health levels.
This Charm can be purchased a number of times equal to the character’s Essence rating.
Righteous Lion Defense (•)
Resonance: Presence, Resistance
The Abyssal entombs her utmost passions within an impenetrable shell of ice. No words or 
magic in the cosmos may move her.
System: Any attempt to cause or force the Abyssal to betray, undermine, or abandon her 
Intimacies automatically fails.
Broken Heart Triumph (••)
Resonance: Empathy, Presence
The Abyssal threads the least bit of oblivion’s Essence into her words as she questions or 
undermines an idea, making the act of clinging to it destructive and painful.
System: When the Abyssal successfully inspires someone to doubt one of their Intimacies (see p. 
XX), she may pay 1 Mote and roll Empathy + Manipulation against difficulty 6. Once the 
inspiration wears off and it’s time for the Intimacy to return to normal, the target must either 
choose to simply abandon the Intimacy (it vanishes and cannot be re-established until the 
Abyssal’s Essence rating in stories have concluded) or reclaim it and soak a number of levels of 
lethal damage equal to the successes on this Charm’s activation roll.
Charnel Emperor Stance (••)
Resonance: Presence
Fixing her gaze upon one who has displeased her, the Abyssal crushes them beneath the weight 
of her wrath. The cold inevitability of failure and dissolution tears at the target’s every thought, 
and no memory or philosophy offers him comfort.
System: The Abyssal spends 1 Mote and rolls Charisma + Presence (difficulty 6), contested by 
the target’s Willpower roll (also difficulty 6). Each success by which the Abyssal wins this 
contest destroys a point of the target’s Willpower (or reduces her Resolve by one for the rest of 
the story). If reduced to 0 Willpower by this Charm, the target immediately falls down and 
abases himself before the Abyssal, and will perform any deed the Abyssal demands in order to 
be relieved of the aching weight of the great and empty void upon his heart, so long as the 
demand isn’t suicidal and doesn’t violate the character’s Nature. Supernatural beings are able to 
shake this servile mentality once they regain at least a point of Willpower (or after about a day, 
in the case of antagonists), but mortals remain broken until they spend at least a fortnight away 
from the Abyssal’s presence.
Apocalyptic Effect: If the Abyssal breaks a ghost’s will with Charnel Emperor Stance, she may 
touch his brow and spend 1 Mote to place a mark reminiscent of her Caste Mark upon him. All 
other ghosts who see the mark understand it to be a chattel-brand marking the wraith as the 
property of an extremely powerful and dangerous agent of the Neverborn. The branded ghost 
does not lose his servile nature after a fortnight away from the Abyssal; instead, he gains a 
permanent Intimacy of servile obedience to the Abyssal, which persists until the Abyssal spends 
another 1 Mote to erase the mark, or until the Exalt perishes.
Grave-Steward’s Resolve (••)
Resonance: Empathy, Presence
The Abyssal fortifies her convictions with the certainty of what she serves, what she is, and what 
she knows is to come.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, Willpower rolls are not subject to 
the rule of 1s, and count results of 9 and 10 as two successes. If such a roll fails anyway (or is 
defeated in a contested roll), the Abyssal loses a point of Willpower as the pillar of her
confidence is cracked.
Heart of Darkness (••)
Resonance: Empathy, Resistance
The Abyss opens a deep pit in her heart and allows any attempt to control or confuse her 
thoughts to tumble into it.
System: Reflexively spend 2 Motes to become immune to all thought and emotion-altering 
magic for the rest of the scene.
Infallible Barghest Mien (••)
Resonance: Awareness, Survival
The Abyssal’s prey can run, but they cannot shake her from their trail no matter how clever they 
may be.
System: Once the character finds some evidence of a trail to follow, her player may spend 1 
Mote to perfectly track the target for the next 24 hours. No roll is needed.
Insensible Corpse Technique (••)
Resonance: Resistance
Though the Abyssal is not truly dead, she can shrug off punishment with the same facility as a 
walking corpse.
System: Upon purchasing this Charm, the Abyssal halves any bashing damage she suffers
(round down) after soak.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal is as much dead as alive. She no longer suffers discomfort or 
injury from extreme cold, and needs to breathe only once per year.
Plague Knows Its Master (••)
Resonance: Medicine, Resistance
The Abyssal’s body may be a temple or chariot to convey contagion through the world, but no 
portion of suffering will fall upon her.
System: Poison and disease can no longer harm the character in any way whatsoever. The 
Abyssal may still act as a carrier for disease, but will never suffer symptoms of any sort. If she 
desires, all zombies she raises also become carriers for every disease the Abyssal harbors within 
her flesh.
Spirit-Hardened Frame (••)
Resonance: Resistance
The Abyssal’s flesh grows cold and tough, nearly able to turn blades.
System: Reflexively spending 1 Mote allows the Abyssal to change her soak pool calculation to 
(Stamina + armor’s Soak value) for the rest of the scene. She may also reflexively spend 1 Mote 
to make soak rolls at –2 difficulty (generally meaning she rolls at difficulty 4 rather than the 
normal 6) for the rest of the scene.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal’s hardened flesh simply shrugs off all incidental wear and tear 
as she moves through the world. If an attack or effect would inflict only a single level of bashing 
or lethal damage on the Abyssal (either before or after soak), then she receives no damage at all.
Withering Dirge (••)
Resonance: Performance
The Abyssal sings a mournful aria or similar performance that enchants and enthralls its 
audience… even as it drains the life from them.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Charisma + Performance, difficulty 7. All listeners must roll 
Willpower (difficulty 6) and gain more successes than the Abyssal, or else lose themselves in the 
performance, ignoring the world around them. Listeners suffer one automatic level of unsoakable 
lethal damage every minute so long as the performance continues. Supernatural targets can make 
another Willpower roll each time they suffer damage, and can add their successes to the total of 
their previous rolls; mortals only get another roll if someone attempts to physically shake them 
out of their reverie.
Alternately, a target may choose to forfeit his Willpower roll (generally because he has no hope 
of overcoming the Abyssal’s successes) and instead bow down before the Abyssal, submitting to 
her will. He gains an Intimacy of terrified obedience, and is immune to any further damage from 
Withering Dirge while it remains.
By spending 1 additional Mote, the Abyssal may cause every zombie she controls, wherever it 
may be, to unhinge its jaw and also sing the Withering Dirge in her voice, with the same deadly 
effects.
The Abyssal may take no other actions while sustaining her deadly song save to walk from place 
to place.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal may act without reservation while using Withering Dirge, 
though her actions are at +1 difficulty. If she attacks anyone directly, they break free of the 
song’s trance as though they’d exceeded her successes on a Willpower roll; anyone she interacts 
with nonviolently (such as by searching their pockets or moving them out of her way) gets 
another Willpower roll for the disruption, and makes it and all subsequent Willpower rolls at 
difficulty 5.
Death Cultist Indoctrination (•••)
Resonance: Presence, Performance
By putting a mortal through a dedicated training regimen, the Abyssal can prime him to endure 
the rigors of service in death’s shadow or to carry forth the good word of the grave. In little more 
than a week, an Abyssal with this Charm can transform a group of fearful common folk into 
suicide evangelists, cenobites, funerists, professional mourners, or a talented ancestor cult.
System: The Abyssal dedicates herself to indoctrinating a group of acolytes, planting in them the 
seeds of a dark faith and opening their eyes to bleak truths through her sermons and miracles.
This takes up at least one hour every day over the course of two weeks. She can dedicate her 
efforts to the training of a group of up to Size (current Essence rating, maximum 5) at a time. 
While she’s actively training a group of acolytes, her maximum Mote pool is reduced by one. 
She can reclaim this capacity by abandoning her students’ training, but if she does this and 
returns to their tutelage later, she must start their training over from scratch.
After two weeks, random skeptics gain an Expertise pool of 5 and an Aptitude for one of the 
following: Demonstrations of faith, funerals, indoctrination, making offerings, prayer, ritual 
sacrifice, sermons, or spreading the faith. Already-competent funerists, fanatics, mourners, and 
so on instead gain an Expertise pool of 7. Experts in the Abyssal’s class advance to an Expertise 
pool of 9. A group of students may be run through this training regimen repeatedly to hone them 
from fearful ignorance to Death Cultists, or to branch them out into multidisciplinary mastery, if 
the Abyssal has sufficient time and inclination.
If a protagonist partakes of Death Cultist training, then after two weeks of training they may 
purchase one dot of Empathy, Presence, Performance, Lore, Survival, or Resistance as though it 
were a Favored Ability.
Elegant Tyrant’s Majesty (•••)
Resonance: Presence
The Abyssal shrouds herself in the ineluctable majesty of the grave. Her dignity and authority are 
unimpeachable; defiance against her is unimaginable, violence almost impossible. 
System: The Abyssal spends 2 Motes. For the rest of the scene, whenever anyone seeks to 
oppose her in any respect, either socially or physically, they must make a Willpower roll against 
a difficulty of the Abyssal’s (Charisma + Presence) or else abort their action and bow their head 
in shame at their own temerity. Characters may still defend against the Abyssal’s attacks.
Apocalyptic Effect: Whenever a character attempts to defy the Abyssal and fails due to Elegant 
Tyrant’s Majesty, they suffer two levels of unsoakable lethal damage as the chill of the grave 
spreads through their body.
Irresistible Succubus Style (•••)
Resonance: Empathy, Performance, Presence
The Abyssal floods a target’s mind with the glory and peace of the grave, pacifying his emotions, 
stilling the turmoil of his spirit, and ultimately making him into her willing and worshipful 
servant.
System: Spend 3 Motes and roll Appearance + Presence (difficulty of the target’s Willpower).
Success transforms the target into the Abyssal’s obedient servant. The more successes rolled, the 
longer the target’s servitude lasts, as per the chart below:
Result Duration
Botch Subject cannot be targeted by this Charm for the rest of the story.
Failure Subject cannot be targeted by this Charm again in the current scene.
1 One scene
2 One day
3 One week
4 One month
5 One year
Each point of Willpower spent to resist this Charm negates one success on the Abyssal’s roll, 
and can potentially drive the effect down to a “botch” result. Antagonists can resist by lowering 
their Resolve for the rest of the story, with each point the Resolve is lowered counting as a point 
of Willpower spent.
Apocalyptic Effect: If the Abyssal’s target is a mortal who has ever suffered through the death 
of someone deeply important in their life, or a supernatural target who suffered the loss of 
someone for whom they held a positive Intimacy within the last three months, then they cannot 
spend Willpower to resist Irresistible Succubus Style; their new devotion to the Abyssal fills the 
lingering wound in their heart, acting as a balm against the ache of loss.
Lies That Tell Themselves (•••)
Resonance: Empathy, Performance
Carving away parts of her listeners’ identity with her will and her words, the Abyssal may 
rewrite the memories of another.
System: Spend 2 Motes while detailing the subject’s new memories and roll Manipulation + 
Performance, resisted by the target’s Willpower (both at difficulty 6). The subject’s memories 
can be rewritten based on the number of successes left after subtracting the result of the opposed 
Willpower roll:
1 success: The events of a recent scene can be rewritten.
2 successes: The events of a recent day can be rewritten.
3 successes: A single pivotal memory in the subject’s life can be rewritten. Alternately, entire 
weeks of the subject’s past can be written so long as they’re not crucial to the substance of her 
life or identity.
4 successes: A major feature of the subject’s life can be rewritten (such as who they’re married 
to, where they grew up, or whether the Abyssal is a hated enemy or their childhood friend).
5+ successes: The subject can be given an entirely new history.
Wounds Mean Nothing (•••)
Resonance: Resistance
Shunting all of her living vitality into the seat of her Essence, the Abyssal gains the momentary 
ability to survive any conceivable trauma.
System: The player may reflexively spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower after the character is struck by 
an attack. The Abyssal is still considered to have been hit, but suffers no damage… to her health 
track, at least. Her body absorbs whatever cosmetic injury seems appropriate to the attack, and so 
may be riddled with arrows, cleaved open by a sword, or could be reduced to jumbled meat and 
gristle by falling off a tower. These apparent injuries do nothing to slow her down or in any way 
inconvenience her, and slowly revert themselves over the course of the next few minutes.
Apocalyptic Effect: At any time she wishes, the Abyssal may reflexively manifest any cosmetic 
injury she has ever negated with Wounds Mean Nothing, lowering the difficulty of an 
Intimidation roll by –3. Manifested wounds could also potentially be used for other purposes as 
well, such as to play dead very, very convincingly.
Daybreak Charms
Crypt Bolt (•)
Resonance: Lore, Thrown
The Abyssal concentrates her Essence into killing projectile of some kind: perhaps a blast of 
black flames, perhaps otherworldly lightning, perhaps a stream of transcendently deadly acid.
System: The Abyssal is always armed with a Dexterity + Thrown weapon which can target 
opponents up to one zone away, with a base damage of 6L. Immediately after she kills someone, 
the weapon’s base damage becomes 7L for the next (Essence rating) turns.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal’s killing intent manifests itself in her chosen incarnation of 
Crypt Bolt: when she is wroth, she may be limned in black flames, or her eyes may crackle with 
purple lightning, and these features manifest themselves in her anima banner when it becomes 
visible. The Crypt Bolt’s damage is aggravated.
Murder-Tracing Eye (•)
Resonance: Investigation
The Abyssal may dissect a scene, isolating important details in a matter of seconds.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to compress a scene’s worth of observation into the time it 
takes to draw in a deep breath, allowing for such feats as a reflexive Perception + Investigation 
roll while running through a room at a full sprint.
Soul-Eating Strike (•)
Resonance: Occult
The Abyssal may consign those she slays immediately and irrevocably to Oblivion.
System: When the Abyssal slays any being, the player can opt to roll Wits + Occult (difficulty 4 
+ target’s Essence rating). Success floods the target’s Essence and soul with the power of 
oblivion, unmaking them forever. Spirits never reform. People do not become ghosts or 
reincarnate as their soul is obliterated (although Celestial Exaltation cannot be destroyed with 
Soul-Eating Strike). The Abyssal gains 3 Motes on the spot if the annihilated being was in any 
sense immortal, such as a god or ghost.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal is a living vessel of oblivion’s power, and when she feeds it 
eternity, an upswelling of dark power spills out from her to empower annihilation’s servants. 
Whenever the Abyssal gains Motes from using Soul-Eating Strike, every spectre present in the 
scene that is not actively opposing her adds +1 die to its dice pools for the rest of the scene. This 
bonus stacks if the Abyssal goes on a killing spree, to a maximum bonus of the Abyssal’s 
Essence rating.
Starveling Plague (•)
Resonance: Lore, Occult, Resistance
When the Abyssal drains a mortal to death with her fangs, she may leave behind a trace of 
primordial darkness in his empty veins, causing the corpse to rise, and walk, and hunger.
System: After drinking a mortal’s blood until he dies, the Abyssal may reflexively roll 
Willpower against difficulty 8. Success causes the corpse to rise at the end of the following turn
as a zombie under her control.
Once an Abyssal knows Starveling Plague, any mortal she drinks to death has a small chance of 
rising as a zombie, even if she doesn’t try to reanimate them intentionally. Such unintended 
risings can happen anywhere from minutes to days after death, and the resulting zombie is feral, 
under no one’s control. Spontaneous reanimations of this sort occur at the Storyteller’s 
discretion; most Abyssals with this Charm aren’t aware they’re possible.
Spirit-Sensing Technique (•)
Resonance: Occult
The Abyssal tunes her predator’s instincts to the subtler strata of reality, allowing her to detect 
the ghosts by their awe of her presence and the gods by their fear that she will put the lie to their 
immortality.
System: Spend 1 Mote. The Abyssal may see dematerialized beings and the entrance of spirit 
sanctums for the rest of the scene. She may also physically interact with dematerialized beings, 
including attacking them.
Terrestrial Circle Sorcery (•)
Resonance: Occult
The Abyssal has been initiated into the practice of sorcery. She can cast Terrestrial Circle spells 
and enact sorcerous workings.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
Truth Naked and Bleeding (•)
Resonance: Awareness, Investigation, Lore, Occult
The Abyssal emits a chilling pulse of Essence that scatters any falsehoods set before her to dust 
and ash.
System: The character may spend 1 Mote to pierce supernatural disguises and transformations 
for the rest of the scene. If another character is using magic to appear to be someone or 
something she is not, the Abyssal automatically sees through their disguise. This pierces 
deceptions, not attempts at hiding. Thus, it could see through Flawlessly Impenetrable Disguise, 
but not Vanishing From Mind’s Eye Method. Burning Eye of the Deliverer sees the true face of 
Lunars in a form from their shapeshifting library (though it detects nothing out of place if they 
are wearing any of their true forms), and will detect spirits possessing a person.
World-Withering Method (•)
Resonance: Craft, Lore
The Abyssal uses her understanding of the building blocks of the world to rend it asunder with 
her Essence.
System: The character touches an object no larger than a wagon, spends 1 Mote, and rolls 
Intelligence + (Craft or Lore) against difficulty 7. Success causes the object to age by years or 
decades in a matter of moments. The Abyssal chooses how much or how little time ravages the 
object. If she accumulates at least three successes, even very sturdy and enduring objects such as 
a steel vault door may be rotted into nothing more than dust or flakes of rust.
Apocalyptic Effect: When using World-Withering Method, the Abyssal may target any object 
within her line of sight rather than needing to touch it, and may unmake it with a gesture. No roll 
is required to do so; the object fades to black, and then to nothingness. By paying 1 additional 
Mote to activate World-Withering Method, the Abyssal may unmake objects up to the size of a 
cottage or similar modest building. 
By paying 1 additional Mote and 1 Willpower, she may also attempt to unmake distinct 
abstractions. This requires an Intelligence + Occult roll: the base difficulty is 6 if this would only 
impact mundane inanimate objects. Raise the difficulty by +1 for each element which is true: the 
unmaking affects an animate being; the unmaking affects something magical; the unmaking 
affects a supernatural being. Thus, attempting to unmake the sharpness of a magical sword would 
be difficulty 7, while unmaking a zombie’s hunger would be difficulty 9, since the zombie is 
animate, magical, and a supernatural being. Animate targets can resist having elements of their 
being unmade with a reflexive Willpower roll against difficulty 6, and supernatural beings cost 1 
additional Mote to target.
These acts of unmaking can’t kill a creature outright, or remove some quality necessary to their 
existence (such as a faerie’s agelessness or ability to consume souls), but the Abyssal could
remove a lover’s tenderness, a singer’s harmony, or a magistrate’s authority. She can also erase 
the pain from a memory, the sensible organization from a bookshelf, the roughness of a poorlymaintained road, or the heat of a hot stove. Only abstractions attached to some distinct local 
phenomenon may be targeted; the Abyssal can’t unmake the progress of time itself, or strike all 
happiness from the cosmos.
All According to Plan (••)
Resonance: Lore
Calculation is inevitability. The Abyssal negates any other disadvantages with cold, pristine 
logic.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to substitute Intelligence in place of any other Attribute, or 
Lore in place of any other Ability for the next (1 + Essence) turns, or (1 + Essence) minutes 
outside of combat. Alternately, by spending 1 Mote and 1 Willpower, the Exalt can roll 
Intelligence + Lore in place of another specific Attribute + Ability pool for that duration.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal may draw slivers of memory and identity from the swirling 
waters of the Underworld to serve her needs. By meditating for an hour, she may make an 
Intelligence + Lore roll to retrieve a desired knowledge-based Ability (difficulty 6), or skillbased (difficulty 8). She gains a number of dots in the retrieved Ability equal to the successes 
rolled (to a maximum of 5) until she next sleeps or meditates.
Celestial Circle Sorcery (••)
Resonance: Occult
The Abyssal has been initiated into the mighty workings of the Celestial Circle of sorcery. She 
can cast Celestial Circle spells.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
An Abyssal must have Essence 3+ to purchase this Charm.
Corpse Questioning Technique (••)
Resonance: Investigation
So long as at least an intact skull remains, the Abyssal may interrogate a cadaver and expect 
truthful answers.
System: Spend 3 Essence and roll (Charisma or Manipulation) + Investigation against difficulty 
(5 + number of weeks the body has been dead, maximum 9). The Abyssal may ask and have 
answered a number of questions equal to her successes rolled. The corpse knows all it did and 
life, though it is devoid of its former personality. This Charm can only be used once on any 
corpse.
Dream-Slaying Defense (••)
Resonance: Lore
The Abyssal empowers herself with absolute nullity to shield her from hostile curses.
System: Whenever the character is the subject of any supernatural power that seeks to transform, 
infect, taint, transport, or control her body or spirit, or to alter her destiny or her place in the 
world (such as by magically altering her Backgrounds), she may reflexively spend 1 Mote and 
roll Wits + Occult against difficulty 7. Success shatters the hostile magic, protecting the Abyssal 
completely, and immunizes her against repeated attempts to exert the same sort of influence for 
the rest of the scene.
Murder Room Preparedness (••)
Resonance: Investigation, Lore
The Abyssal has learned to be ever-ready for the eventualities of chaos, mayhem, and violence.
System: Once per scene, the Abyssal may reflexively spend 1 Mote to re-roll a failed or botched 
roll, keeping the preferred result. Her player must describe how the Abyssal anticipated the 
difficulty that faces her and planned ahead for it in advance. Alternately, the player can spend 1 
Willpower to retroactively declare that the Abyssal brought along some useful bit of equipment 
(or performed a useful bit of research), and has had it with them all along, so long as this isn’t 
clearly in violation of the established scene. For example, the Abyssal might have smuggled a 
knife or set of lockpicks into a high-society gala, but she definitely hasn’t been toting around a 
grand daiklave unnoticed and unremarked all evening.
Apocalyptic Effect: When the player spends Willpower to retcon the scene, she may cite one or 
more of the Abyssal’s Backgrounds and call upon some truly implausible or significant bit of 
foresight: she had one of her Contacts stow her faithful yeddim Familiar within the grounds, or 
courier she hired with her Resources arrives at that moment and delivers her grand daiklave.
Through Dead Eyes (••)
Resonance: Awareness, Craft, Medicine, Occult
The Abyssal’s eyes become jet black as she attunes her senses to the seed of death and 
destruction present in all things, or transforms her Essence into a perfect and pitiless mirror 
against which to reflect the otherworlds.
System: Roll Perception + Occult against difficulty 7. Success allows the character to detect 
Essence for the rest of the scene, becoming particularly attuned to the incipient decay and 
entropy in the world. Depending on the number of successes rolled and the presence of anything 
interesting to detect, she might uncover things like the radiance of a nearby Manse or Demesne, a 
subtle but active spell or sorcerous working, or the fact that a ferocious amount of Essence was 
spent in the area sometime recently. She can also discern particular profiles, flavors, or “colors” 
of Essence if she has encountered them before, and thus might use this Charm to track a missing 
Circlemate by the trail of his expended Essence.
Additionally, reduce the difficulty of any roll to diagnose an illness or determine how best to 
break or repair an object by two.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal’s eyes are always perfect black pools, and she never stops 
seeing at least traceries of death and decay in the world. The difficulty to sharpen this vision with 
Through Dead Eyes is only 4, rather than the usual 7.
Winter Strikes the Forest (••)
Resonance: Lore, Medicine, Occult
The Abyssal insinuates a quiet seed of oblivion into those she does battle with, rendering them 
hopeless and stagnant.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote when the Abyssal inflicts damage with an attack. The target 
from cannot heal any damage, by any means, for a number of days equal to (the highest of the 
Abyssal’s Lore, Medicine, or Occult) rating, minimum 1.
Cannibalistic Renewal Incitement (•••)
Resonance: Medicine, Survival
The Abyssal may grant a blessing or curse of terrible, cannibal hunger.
System: The Abyssal touches her subject and spends 1 Mote, then rolls Manipulation + 
Medicine against a difficulty of the subject’s Willpower. For 24 hours per success, the subject 
finds the sight and smell of her own species to be… delectable. She’s under no obligation to act 
on these terrible compulsions, but if she does, she finds that for every 3 health levels worth of 
appropriate flesh consumed, she heals 2 bashing or 1 lethal damage. If she devours the flesh of a 
supernatural being, she may heal aggravated damage as easily as lethal damage. The average 
human body contains about 10 levels worth of edible meat, and those under the effects of this 
Charm find that their stomach never seems to fill, no matter how much of a cannibal repast they 
partake in.
The Abyssal may target herself with this Charm if she wishes. Additionally, once she knows this 
Charm, all zombies she controls or animates permanently enjoys its benefits, allowing them to 
repair themselves by feasting on flesh.
Apocalyptic Effect: There is power to be had from consuming others. When someone the 
Abyssal blesses with Cannibalistic Renewal Incitement (including herself) devours another 
person down to bare bones — that is to say, consumes all 10 levels of their flesh — they may 
increase one of their Attributes by one dot for the next 24 hours. This can’t raise an Attribute 
above 7.
Corpse Graft Technique (•••)
Resonance: Medicine, Occult
The Abyssal may fuse death to life to shore up the debilities of the living, replacing maimed, 
defective, or missing body parts with undead grafts harvested from corpses. These grafts may be 
in any style the Abyssal likes, from rotting zombie-parts to complex “artificial” armatures of 
bone and sinew, to carefully harvested replacement limbs nearly indistinguishable from living 
tissue save for their pallor.
System: The Abyssal spends several hours treating a crippling debility, then her player spends 2 
Motes and rolls Intelligence + Medicine against difficulty 9. Success repairs the debility after 24 
hours of acclimation to the corpse graft.
The Abyssal may also use this Charm to repair damaged undead she controls. In this case, the 
Charm costs no Essence, and the roll is Intelligence + (higher of Crafts or Medicine) at difficulty 
6. Each success restores one Health Level.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal may splice together life and death to create a wide variety of 
uncanny horrors. She may devise and execute medical procedures requiring a fully stocked 
alchemical laboratory and surgical theater and an uninterrupted day or two of treatments and 
surgeries. She then rolls Intelligence + Medicine against difficulty 9. Failure inflicts four levels 
of aggravated damage upon the patient, while a botch kills them outright; success, on the other 
hand grants them some aberrant biological or spiritual feature, such as additional arms harvested 
from corpses, inhumanly accelerated healing, or the capacity to scent and track human flesh like 
a bloodhound, or even the ability to crawl through the Shroud separating the world of the living 
from the Underworld. In game terms, they may gain a number of dots of the Uncanny 
Background up to the Abyssal’s Essence rating.
Anyone bearing advanced alterations inflicted by the Abyssal’s necrosurgery is considered a 
creature of darkness.
Deception-Punishing Stare (•••)
Resonance: Awareness, Empathy, Investigation
Woe betide those who would attempt to mislead the knights of the abyss. Anyone who 
intentionally attempts to lie to the Abyssal suffers spontaneous stigmata, bleeding from the eyes, 
lips, or fingertips.
System: Spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, whenever someone knowingly lies to the 
Abyssal, he manifests alarming but harmless stigmata.
Apocalyptic Effect: When someone lies to the Abyssal under the effects of Deception-Punishing 
Stare, the blood keeps coming and coming; the liar suffers one unsoakable level of lethal damage 
per minute. The only way to stem the bleeding is to answer the Abyssal’s question once again, 
this time as truthfully as the victim is able to.
Dreams of the Well of Udr (•••)
Resonance: Occult
The Abyssal poisons her Essence with blasphemous secrets and long-forgotten lore, making 
herself into a necromancer without peer.
System: Upon purchasing this Charm, the Abyssal lowers the difficulty of all sorcery rolls by–1.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal gains an additional signature spell.
Forbidden Scholar Curriculum (•••)
Resonance: Presence, Performance
By putting a mortal through a dedicated training regimen, the Abyssal can train him in the ways
of necrosurgery, academics, or dark magic. In little more than a week, an Abyssal with this 
Charm can transform a group of simple farmers into skilled necromancer-assistants, learned 
savants, qualified surgeons, or pitiless torturers.
System: The Abyssal dedicates herself to training a group of students, subjecting them to a 
rigorous course of lectures and practical lessons. This takes up at least one hour every day over 
the course of two weeks. She can dedicate her efforts to the training of a group of up to Size 
(current Essence rating, maximum 5) at a time. While she’s actively training a group of students, 
her maximum Mote pool is reduced by one. She can reclaim this capacity by abandoning her 
students’ training, but if she does this and returns to their tutelage later, she must start their 
training over from scratch.
After two weeks, illiterate clods gain an Expertise pool of 5 and an Aptitude for one of the 
following: Craftsmanship, dark secrets of the occult, medicine, necrosurgery, scholarship, or 
torture. They also become literate. Already-competent cultists, craftsmen, scholars, and so on 
instead gain an Expertise pool of 7. Experts in the Abyssal’s class advance to an Expertise pool 
of 9. A group of students may be run through this training regimen repeatedly to hone them from 
clueless peasants to Forbidden Scholars, or to branch them out into multidisciplinary mastery, if 
the Abyssal has sufficient time and inclination.
If a protagonist partakes of Forbidden Scholar training, then after two weeks of training they may 
purchase one dot of Bureaucracy, Investigation, Linguistics, Lore, Medicine, or Occult as though 
it were a Favored Ability.
Plague-Eating Kiss (•••)
Resonance: Lore, Medicine
While drinking someone’s blood, the Abyssal may draw any sickness, disease, or ailment out of 
them and store it within her own Essence, to be later passed on to a more worthy recipient.
System: Spend 1 Willpower while biting a target to cure them of a disease or sickness. The 
Abyssal stores this ailment harmlessly within herself until ready to unleash it, at which point she 
must touch her target, spend 1 Mote, and make a contested roll of Strength + Medicine vs the 
target’s Stamina + Resistance, both at difficulty 6. If the Abyssal gains more successes, the target 
is infected with a stored contagion.
If the Abyssal controls any zombies, she may also reflexively activate this Charm to inflict a 
stored plague through her minion when one of her zombies bites someone.
Solar Circle Sorcery (•••)
Resonance: Occult
The Abyssal has grasped the workings of the all-powerful Solar Circle of sorcery. She can cast 
Solar Circle spells.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
An Abyssal must have Essence 5+ to purchase this Charm.
Day Charms
Crouching Gargoyle Stance (•)
Resonance: Athletics
The Abyssal becomes weightless as a ghost, and enjoys unearthly, perfect balance.
System: The character needs never roll to maintain her balance, no matter how precarious her 
footing, and may stand or run upon even the weakest or most insubstantial of surfaces, such as 
falling leaves, individual threads, drops of rain, or even the surface of water. Reflexively 
spending 1 Mote allows her to run and stand upon walls or even to cling to ceilings for the rest of 
the scene.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal also permanently lowers the difficulty of all Dexterity + 
Athletics rolls by three.
Earth-Forsaking Stance (•)
Resonance: Athletics
The Abyssal’s leaps become as powerful and sudden as a wolf spider on the hunt.
System: The Abyssal’s jumping distance and height is tripled. By reflexively spending 1 Mote, 
the Abyssal may increase her jumping distance or height tenfold. In combat, she can easily 
relocate to zones above her without recourse to complex movement.
Apocalyptic Effect: The character always lands on her feet, is permanently immune to falling 
damage, and this Charm’s more powerful mode is always on without the need of an Essence 
cost.
Falling Scythe Attack (•)
Resonance: Athletics
When her foes do not resist, there can be no doubt of the Abyssal striking an instantly fatal blow.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote when the Abyssal launches an unexpected attack. After 
rolling damage, double the successes before soak. If the Abyssal slays her target, she may 
reflexively spend 1 additional Essence to force his body through a silent gap in the skin of 
worlds to be lost somewhere in the depths of the Underworld.
Apocalyptic Effect: Whenever the Abyssal kills someone, she may reflexively activate Falling 
Scythe Attack’s second function for 0 Essence to shuttle the corpse through a series of spatial 
rifts, in and out of the Underworld’s various watercourses, to be deposited somewhere else in the 
living world within (Essence rating x 100) yards of her, such as in the murdered individual’s own 
bed, hidden in a wardrobe, or otherwise secreted away somewhere to be discovered at a time that 
will be convenient for the Abyssal’s plans. The only restriction is that the Abyssal can’t dump 
the body out in front of witnesses; she can only relocate it to some hidden or unoccupied space.
Fivefold Sensory Exercise (•)
Resonance: Awareness
The Abyssal may sharpen her senses until they’re as keen as those of the unquiet dead. She can 
hear a person’s heartbeat from rooms away, read a sheet of paper by letting her fingers trail 
across the ink on it, and count the hairs on a fly’s legs from across a room.
System: The Abyssal must spend a turn in concentration to activate or banish this Charm. While 
it is active, the difficulty of all Perception rolls drops by –3, to a minimum of difficulty 3. Since 
Sensory Acuity Prana sharpens the Abyssal’s senses indiscriminately, few of the Chosen leave it 
active at all times, having no desire to smell corpse-rot in superhuman detail.
Flitting Shadow Form (•)
Resonance: Athletics
The Abyssal advances with eerie micro-flickers of motion that ensure no blow ever does more 
than graze her.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the round, attacks directed against the Abyssal
by both protagonists and antagonists do not add threshold successes to their damage.
Shadows Upon the Moon (•)
Resonance: Athletics
The Abyssal drifts away from attacks that seem to have struck her at the last possible moment, 
like a ghost, like fog on a winter night.
System: If an attack directed at the Abyssal generates fewer successes than her Athletics rating, 
she increases her soak against it by +2 dice.
Spider in Society’s Web (•)
Resonance: Awareness, Investigation, Occult
The Abyssal may, with but a moment’s touch, feel the chains that bind one of the living to the 
restless dead.
System: To activate this Charm, the Abyssal must touch a living being and spend 1 Mote, then 
roll Perception + (Awareness, Investigation, or Occult). Her successes determine how much 
information she learns.
1 success: The Abyssal learns whether or not the individual has any connection to the restless 
dead of any sort.
3 successes: The Abyssal learns the nature of the connection: If the individual is the subject of a 
ghost’s Intimacy, if they are possessed by a ghost, if they are a member of the ancestor cult.
5 successes+: The Abyssal learns the identity of the Unquiet being the individual is tied to, 
including the creature’s name and appearance.
Wisp Hides its Light (•)
Resonance: None
The Abyssal denies what she is, assuming a bland and unassuming mien, the better to pass 
unsuspected among the living. If death has made her beautiful, then her skin becomes imperfect 
and ruddy, her eyes rheumy. If death has marked her with rot or decay, the worms sleep within 
her. Her flesh mends. She may look ill, but not dead. Finally, her Shadows temporarily abate. 
System: The Abyssal may spend a minute in ferocious concentration before rolling
(Manipulation or Wits) + (Larceny or Performance) against difficulty 6. She may set her 
Appearance rating to 1 or 2, as she desires, for one day per success. If she also wishes to 
suppress her Shadows of the Grave, then this Charm lasts for one hour per success. She no 
longer seems to be outwardly marked by the great power of death while Wisp Hides its Light is 
active.
Activating this Charm is considered a violation of the Nameless Curse unless the character is a 
Day Caste.
Apocalyptic Effect: The character may activate or deactivate this Charm reflexively, and can 
maintain it indefinitely.
Carnage-Sweeping Method (••)
Resonance: Larceny, Stealth
The Abyssal makes a dismissive gesture while standing among the aftermath of some heinous act 
she has committed — a break-in, a massacre, whatever the case may be. A shadow passes over 
any present sources of light, and a moment later when visibility returns, the scene is clean. 
Bloodstains, corpses, smashed furniture, broken glass, and body parts seemingly vanish. They’re 
not gone, of course, not really, but this Charm puts them… somewhere out of the way… such as 
in a nearby attic, or under the floorboards… and ensures they won’t be found until long after the 
Abyssal is gone.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll (Wits or Manipulation) + Larceny immediately after committing 
some sort of crime or other questionable act for which punishment or retribution might befall the 
Exalt if anyone links it back to her. No evidence which links her back to the act can be 
discovered by any means for (successes rolled) minutes, hours, or days (Abyssal’s choice); when 
the duration elapses, all of the displaced evidence is guaranteed to be found by someone in a 
horrifying fashion. The only thing this Charm won’t cover up are the memories of eyewitnesses.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal doesn’t vanish from the memories of those who directly 
witnessed her crime, per se, but unless they succeed at a difficulty 9 Willpower roll at the time of 
this Charm’s activation, they can’t bring themselves to remember what they saw: it’s just too 
horrible. Attempts to pressure them into it result in incapacitating hysteria. This effect is 
permanent, unless the Abyssal chooses to confront them directly about what they saw by 
revealing the truth or deliberately leading them to recollect it, at which point all memories return 
in a flood and they lose 3 points of Willpower (or reduce their Resolve by –3 for the rest of the 
current story).
Face-Drinking Bite (••)
Resonance: Larceny
The Abyssal may take someone’s likeness along with their blood.
System: By drinking another character’s blood, the Abyssal gains the ability to don his 
appearance as a perfect disguise for the next 24 hours. If she drinks the character to death, she 
may wear his appearance at any time by spending 1 Mote. This disguise lasts for (Essence rating) 
hours.
Life-Eroding Gesture (••)
Resonance: Larceny
The Abyssal raises a hand and slowly brings her fingers together, crushing the vitality from 
whosoever has earned her wrath.
System: (Essence rating) times per scene, the Abyssal may respond to another character 
declaring an action by making a reflexive Willpower roll against difficulty 7. For each success 
she rolls, her target loses one die from whatever action they’re attempting.
Apocalyptic Effect: Should the Abyssal reduce an action to 0 dice with Life-Eroding Gesture, it 
automatically becomes a botch and the target loses 3 Willpower points (or reduces their Resolve 
by three for the rest of the current story).
Ominous Portent Exercise (••)
Resonance: Awareness
The Abyssal instinctively knows when death draws near, making her impossible to take unaware 
so long as she hasn’t totally exhausted both body and spirit.
System: The Abyssal may reflexively spend 1 Mote to automatically notice an ambush or other 
such unexpected attack, allowing her to defend against it as normal.
Serpent at Society’s Breast (••)
Resonance: None
The Abyssal may smoothly insinuate herself into a living scene or milieu, projecting all the 
correct signals of recognition and camaraderie.
System: Spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower and roll Intelligence + (Empathy, Larceny, or Performance) 
against difficulty 6, then select a type of mortals, such as beggars, career criminals, farmers, 
merchants, sailors, or soldiers. For one day per success, any mortal of the selected class that the 
Abyssal meets instinctively recognizes her as a fellow member of their fraternity. In the case of 
competitive or dangerous categories such as criminals, merchants, or soldiers, she is furthermore 
seen as a fellow traveler who represents possible opportunities for enrichment and advancement 
rather than a potential threat or rival. This is a potent first impression, but won’t negate or erase 
any knowledge to the contrary that an individual might have (it won’t make them forget that the 
Abyssal is actually a murderous servant of an evil ghost if they already know her true identity, 
for example; or, if they have seen a wanted poster with her face on it, they may suspect she is not 
what she seems; or they might think she is a sailor who has also committed some terrible crime).
Using this Charm counts as a violation of the Nameless Curse for non-Day Castes.
Shadow Races the Light (••)
Resonance: Athletics
The Abyssal moves with the speed of a scream, able to flash from shadow to shadow like a 
living nightmare.
System: The difficulty of all actions to run someone down, get somewhere quickly, or jump a 
difficult gap are permanently lowered by two. By reflexively spending 1 Mote when she moves 
to an adjacent zone, the Abyssal may move two zones instead.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal moves from shadow to shadow in the momentary darkness 
that is the blink of an eye. By spending 1 Mote, she may become one with the shadows for the 
rest of the scene; each turn, she gains one two-zone reflexive movement into any shadow she can
see, as though she were using Shadow Races the Light at no cost. This is a form of teleportation, 
so she can bypass obstacles so long as her destination is in shadow..
Strength Stealing Technique (••)
Resonance: Athletics
The Abyssal may convert the stolen life of another into raw might.
System: When the Abyssal inflicts at least three levels of lethal damage to another character by 
drinking their blood, she adds (lower of Essence rating or Strength) automatic successes to one 
Strength roll or hand-to-hand damage roll of her choosing during the next 24 hours. When she 
drinks someone to death, she adds (higher of Essence rating or Strength) instead.
Apocalyptic Effect: When the Abyssal drinks a supernatural being to death, she may 
automatically succeed at the next feat of strength she attempts involving any object up to the size 
of a tower. If she gluts herself on the blood and death of at least a dozen people during a single 
scene, she adds 10 automatic successes to a Strength or damage roll, rather than the normal 
bonus granted by Strength Stealing Technique.
Void Stares Back (••)
Resonance: Awareness
The Abyssal’s senses, attuned to darkness, immediately pick out the supernatural.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Essence. For the rest of the next 24 hours, the Abyssal becomes 
aware when she stands in the presence of any supernatural being, though she doesn’t inherently 
know what sort of supernatural being any given individual may be. This Charm doesn’t detect 
dematerialized beings unless the Abyssal is able to perceive them at the time.
Apocalyptic Effect: By concentrating on an individual the Abyssal believes to be a supernatural 
entity, she may scrutinize that creature’s Essence for clues to its nature. Roll Perception + Occult 
against difficulty 8. Success causes the Abyssal to receive compelling clues. For example: “A 
radiant aura golden light from his heart, making your eyes burn.” Or: “A great hulking wolfshadow looms above her.” If the Abyssal has encountered and scrutinized this sort of 
supernatural being in the past, then she can identify them as such. “He’s a Solar.” “She’s a 
Lunar.”
Flickering Wisp Technique (•••)
Resonance: Athletics
The Abyssal fades into smoke and shadow just before being struck by an attack, reappearing a 
moment later.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower in response to an attack. It fails to strike the 
Abyssal without any further dice rolls. This Charm cannot be invoked against undodgeable 
attacks. If the Abyssal spends another Mote, then she can also teleport to any point within two 
zones of her current location after dodging.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal reappears in her enemy’s blind spot. If she uses her next action 
to attack someone whose attack she dodged with Flickering Wisp Technique, that attack is made 
at –2 difficulty.
Incomparable Phantom Form (•••)
Resonance: Athletics
The Abyssal avoids her foes in nightmare flicker-flashes of motion. When a blade or arrows has 
surely struck her down, she is somewhere else, somewhere closer, somewhere that makes 
everything worse.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For the next (1 + Essence rating) 
rounds, the Abyssal’s Dodge value is increased by +2. If this would raise her Defense above 9, 
her attackers are forced to discard one success from their attacks.
If the Abyssal successfully dodges an attack while this Charm is active, then at the end of the 
round, after all characters have taken their turn but before any extra actions occur, she may 
reflexively move into an adjacent zone she could reach without resorting to complex movement 
as she evades her enemies.
The Abyssal cannot have both Incomparable Phantom Form and Eye of the Tempest active at the 
same time.
Apocalyptic Effect: When the Abyssal takes advantage of the reflexive movement function of 
this Charm, she may momentarily flicker through even solid walls in order to reach adjacent 
zones that would not otherwise be possible to access.
On Wings of Night (•••)
Resonance: Athletics
The Abyssal’s anima billows out around her like tenebrous wings, bearing her aloft and allowing 
her to fly.
System: Spend 3 Motes. For the rest of the scene, the Abyssal can fly. If the light of the sun 
touches her anima, this Charm ends instantly.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal may use this Charm for free whenever her anima is flaring.
Cold-Eyed Inquisitor Regimen (•••)
Resonance: Larceny
By putting a mortal through a dedicated training regimen, the Abyssal can train him to extract 
the secrets of his fellows by any means necessary. In little more than a week, an Abyssal with 
this Charm can transform a group of loyal community-members into ruthless infiltrators, 
inquisitors, spies, torturers, deep-cover agents, and saboteurs.
System: The Abyssal dedicates herself to training a group of students, subjecting them to a 
rigorous course of lectures and practical lessons. This takes up at least one hour every day over 
the course of two weeks. She can dedicate her efforts to the training of a group of up to Size 
(current Essence rating, maximum 5) at a time. While she’s actively training a group of students, 
her maximum Mote pool is reduced by one. She can reclaim this capacity by abandoning her 
students’ training, but if she does this and returns to their tutelage later, she must start their 
training over from scratch.
After two weeks, clueless neophytes gain an Expertise pool of 5 and an Aptitude for one of the 
following: Interrogation, investigation, sabotage, scouting, spying, or theft. Already-competent 
criminals, interrogators, spies, and so on instead gain an Expertise pool of 7. Experts in the 
Abyssal’s class advance to an Expertise pool of 9. A group of students may be run through this 
training regimen repeatedly to hone them from fainting violets to Cold-Eyed Inquisitors, or to 
branch them out into multidisciplinary mastery, if the Abyssal has sufficient time and inclination.
If a protagonist partakes of Cold-Eyed Inquisitor training, then after two weeks of training they 
may purchase one dot of Athletics, Awareness, Investigation, Larceny, Martial Arts, Presence, 
Stealth, or Thrown as though it were a Favored Ability.
Sinister Shade Infiltration (•••)
Resonance: Larceny, Stealth
The Abyssal steps halfway into the Underworld, and for a short time walks as a phantom in the 
living world.
System: Spend 1 Mote. For the next (Essence rating x 5) minutes, the Abyssal becomes 
dematerialized and may pass through solid objects and surfaces. Any magic explicitly capable of 
harming dematerialized beings can still strike and hurt her. The Abyssal may end this Charm 
prematurely at any time she wishes.
Splinter in the Mind’s Eye (•••)
Resonance: Stealth
The Abyssal can flood her Essence with the signature of oblivion, vanishing from sight and 
awareness completely.
System: By standing still in a shadowed place or obscure corner and remaining quiet, the 
Abyssal can become functionally invisible and impossible to notice so long as nobody’s actively 
watching her. This obscurity remains in place so long as she doesn’t move or make noise. 
Spending 1 Mote renders her invisible and impossible to notice for the rest of the scene, so long 
as she doesn’t make some sort of loud noise or take blatant action such as attacking or tipping 
over a bookshelf. Spending 1 additional Mote allows her to extend this concealment to any 
zombies she controls, so long as they remain perfectly still.
Apocalyptic Effect: To see the Abyssal is impossible, unthinkable, an acceptance of horror no 
mind can endure. Even if she makes loud noises or begins fighting, the invisibility granted by 
Splinter in the Mind’s Eye won’t break (see p. XX for invisibility rules). Only her anima flaring 
will break the Charm. Her zombies similarly remain invisible so long as they don’t slouch out 
into direct light.
Unjust Appropriation Method (•••)
Resonance: Larceny
The Abyssal takes what she likes and walks where she wills, allowing neither laws nor locks to 
stand in her path.
System: Spend 1 Mote to perform any of the following feats: Cause a lock to spring open, pass 
through a closed door or window without disturbing it, or attempt to steal an object in plain sight 
without anyone noticing the attempt.
Apocalyptic Effect: Once per session, shortly after leaving a location, the Abyssal may spend 2 
Motes to retroactively declare that she successfully stole something without anyone noticing and 
that she has it on her right now. The object must have actually been there for her to steal it, but it 
otherwise doesn’t matter how implausible the theft is. Stealing a merchant prince’s jeweled nosestud upon leaving a meeting with him is wholly within the Abyssal’s capabilities.
Moonshadow Charms
Cunning Subversion Style (•)
Resonance: Bureaucracy, Occult, Socialize
Simply by briefly interacting with one of its members or officers, the Abyssal causes her Essence 
to wind its way through a bureaucracy or project, afflicting it with haunting-like distractions and 
mishaps which slow progress to a crawl.
System: The character can spend 3 Motes to target a specific office or project with terrible 
inefficiency for the rest of the current story. Everyone involved in pushing the project forward 
increases the difficulty of all rolls to do so by +2. In narrative terms, the project is plagued with 
ill luck, mysterious injuries and possibly even deaths, and a growing miasma of dread and terror 
until it grinds to a near-halt.
Deck-Striding Phantom (•)
Resonance: Sail
The Abyssal is a thing out of nautical lore and nightmare, embodying all the terror of the sea.
System: This Charm conveys the following benefits:
• All Sail rolls are made at –2 difficulty.
• Knowing that the darkness of the abyss is nothing compared to the darkness of the Abyss, the 
Exalt has mastered her fear. The difficulty of all attempts to frighten her by supernatural means 
is increased by +1, and the first time in any given session that someone or something tries to 
terrify her in such a fashion and fails, she gains one point of Willpower.
• The Abyssal can swim without it counting as complex movement, and may hold her breath for 
up to 15 minutes at a time. By spending 1 Mote, she can freeze whatever liquid she walks on for 
the rest of the scene, allowing her to stride unconcerned across the surface of the sea.
• When a ship or boat the Abyssal is piloting is about to sink, she may spend 1 Mote per hour to 
shroud it in chill, fearsome mists. So long as she does so, the vessel can still sail and remain 
afloat, no matter how badly damaged it may be.
• All zombies the Abyssal gain the Aptitude: Sailing, and can effectively crew a ship, despite the 
complexity of such a task normally being well beyond their capabilities.
Apocalyptic Effect: The weather ever reflects the Abyssal’s mood. When she’s pleased with 
herself, the skies remain cloudy and cool, the winds gentle. Her sorrows bring torrential rains or 
clinging fogs, and her rages provoke violent storms. She can roll Willpower against difficulty 6 
to still this effect for a day if she wishes.
Distorted Mirror Mien (•)
Resonance: Socialize
The Abyssal hides her innermost self in a hall of mirrors, reflecting back only the expectations of 
those who would interrogate her heart.
System: Any ordinary or supernatural attempt to discern the Abyssal’s Nature automatically 
fails, revealing whichever result she wishes to project in its place. This Charm’s effects are 
permanent.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal is impenetrable. Unless she willingly reveals information 
about herself, it is impossible to learn anything about the Abyssal’s identity, past, or innermost 
motives through mundane research or magical means of any sort. Another character can still 
attempt to speak to the Abyssal to convince her to open up, of course.
Entombed Thoughts Meditation (•)
Resonance: Awareness, Empathy, Resistance
The Abyssal’s mind is a mazelike crypt, offering only horror for those who would attempt to 
intrude.
System: Whenever someone attempts to read the Abyssal’s mind by any means, roll Perception 
+ Awareness against difficulty 6. Success reveals not only the mind-reading attempt, but also 
who is responsible. The Abyssal may then pay 1 Mote to reflexively shield her thoughts, making 
them impossible to read for the rest of the scene, and causing the offender to lose 1 Willpower as 
his own thoughts tumble into the darkness of the character’s Essence (or causing an Antagonist 
to lose 1 Resolve for the rest of the current story).
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal’s secrets are her own, and Entombed Thoughts Meditation is 
always active at no cost.
Ghost-Warding Glyph (•)
Resonance: Bureaucracy, Occult, Socialize
The Abyssal may mark any living person’s forehead with a glyph scribed in blood. So long as it 
remains undisturbed, they are protected from the magic of the dead.
System: Spend 1 Mote. Until the mark is deliberately washed or scrubbed away, all ghostly 
magic directed against the protected individual raises its difficulty by the Abyssal’s Essence 
rating; if there’s no roll involved, then they must reduce their Resolve by the Abyssal’s Essence 
rating to use magic to affect the subject. The Abyssal can’t grant the Ghost-Waring Glyph’s
mark to herself.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal instinctively knows when the magic of the dead has been cast 
against her glyph, and may close her eyes in concentration to scry the scene where the one she 
has marked is being accosted as though she were present, and may telepathically advise the one 
bearing the mark if she wishes to.
Haunted Rider Mastery (•)
Resonance: Ride
A bleak rider come to usher in the end of days, the Abyssal’s horsemanship is unimpeachable.
System: This Charm conveys the following benefits:
• All Ride rolls are made at –1 difficulty.
• The Abyssal may beckon quietly and spend 1 Mote, and any mount she owns, or which regards 
her with deep fondness even if she doesn’t own it, will appear within a matter of moments, ready 
to be mounted and ridden.
• Any mount the Abyssal rides can race all out for 12 hours without tiring, and can move twice 
as fast as it would if bearing any other rider.
• If an attack is directed at the Abyssal’s mount, it can add her Ride rating to its soak.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal may spend 1 Mote while riding a steed to grant it the power to 
gallop on air for the rest of the scene.
Hideous Phantom Missive (•)
Resonance: Linguistics, Occult
The Abyssal whispers or pens a short message and consigns it to the unknowable horror of the 
universe. Those horrors ensure that it reaches its intended recipient.
System: Spend 1 Mote upon speaking the words or casting aside a written missive. When the 
intended recipient is next alone, she receives the Abyssal’s message. This always occurs by 
means of a horrifying supernatural manifestation. Possibilities include but are certainly not 
limited to: the rotting corpse of a loved one knocking on the door at midnight and thrusting a 
note into the target’s hands; letters of blood beading up on the wall before drizzling down the 
boards; a carriage wrecks and overturns, and the lone mutilated survivor crawls out to deliver the 
message before dying; a clotted, monstrous voice whispers the message from an ancient well. 
When the recipient turns away, runs, blinks, or attempts to summon help, they find all 
supernatural evidence of the manifestation (a rotting zombie and the gore it tracked across the 
floor) gone, though purely mundane elements of the message itself (the letter it held) may 
remain.
Spectral Steed (•)
Resonance: Ride
A great and eerie fog rolls in, and from its depths emerges a mount or mount-drawn conveyance 
for the Abyssal. This is usually a shadowy equine, but with a grand expenditure of Essence might 
be an ebony carriage drawn by black horses with burning eyes.
System: Spend 1 Mote to solidify a mount out of the Abyssal’s anima for the rest of the scene. 
Spend 2 Motes to manifest a beast-drawn conveyance capable of carrying (Essence + 3) people. 
Should the Abyssal dismount or disembark, it vanishes back into the darkness whence it came.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal may spend 1 Willpower to maintain the solidity of her Spectral 
Steed even while no longer in contact with it. Not only will the mount continue to exist, it can 
move of its own accord in response to the Abyssal’s will, as though she were riding, making rolls 
to maneuver with her dice pool. The Spectral Steed always “knows” where the Abyssal is and 
how to find her, and is otherwise as “intelligent” as the Abyssal in carrying out the tasks the 
Abyssal assigns to it. The Abyssal doesn’t need to be able to see or communicate with her 
Spectral Steed to give it commands.
Words Beneath a Whisper (•)
Resonance: Linguistics, Socialize
The Abyssal hides her true meaning within a shell of decoy words, as a ghost may hide within a 
manor. These coded messages only reveal themselves to those she wishes.
System: Spend 1 Mote while speaking or composing a written work to embed a second, hidden 
message inside the statement or writing. This hidden message can only be discerned by those the 
Abyssal intends to address it to.
Argument-Slaying Presence (••)
Resonance: Bureaucracy
The Abyssal’s dread shadow dogs the steps of those organizations with which she interacts, 
intimidating its agents and officers into concluding her business as quickly as they can.
System: When the Abyssal engages with bureaucracy or labyrinthine systems such as courts of 
law, corporate networks, or government offices, red tape parts before her like the Red Sea and 
she is able to proceed in a mere fraction of the normal time. Moreover, simply by briefly 
conversing with someone involved, she can spend 2 Motes to place her blessing upon a project 
such a certain magistrate investigation, bit of legislation, or attempt at reforming city 
government, and everyone involved in pushing the project forward reduces the difficulty of all 
rolls to do so by –2. In narrative terms, the project steams forward with uncanny speed and 
efficiency.
Exquisite Etiquette Style (••)
Resonance: Empathy Socialize
Drawing knowledge from the memories of the dead, the Abyssal gains a universal sense of 
etiquette and social currents. She never commits faux pas or social gaffes when dealing with 
unfamiliar cultures or social situations.
System: The Abyssal lowers the difficulty of all Socialize rolls by one, and cannot botch with 
when rolling it. Should she fail at any social roll, she may reflexively spend 1 Mote to attempt to 
re-roll it once.
Apocalyptic Effect: The Abyssal unfailingly gives excellent first impressions to all those she 
meets, lowering the difficulty of all social rolls against a character during the first scene she 
meets them in by –1. Unless given some pressing reason to act otherwise, those who first 
encounter the Abyssal are inclined to regard her well and behave favorably toward her; in short, 
they like her.
Language Absorbing Method (••)
Resonance: Linguistics
As the Abyssal drinks someone’s blood, so too she gains their facility with language.
System: By drinking at least three health levels of a person’s blood, the Abyssal gains facility 
with one language they knew for 24 hours. By drinking them to death, she learns that language 
permanently.
Maelstrom-Weathering Ways (••)
Resonance: Sail
The Abyssal becomes at home forging her way through the storm-wracked seas of Creation and 
the even more turbulent waters that roil and churn through the guts of the Underworld, and may 
shrug off the abuse of both sorts of sea.
System: Spend 1 Mote while commanding or aboard a sailing vessel, and roll Wits + Sail against 
difficulty 6. The ship enjoys favorable winds and cooperative currents for one day per success 
rolled, and if there is inclement weather, then the ship somehow manages to find calm patches 
that do not impair its progress. The Abyssal may also reflexively pay 2 Motes when the ship 
suffers any form of substantial harm such as being struck by a battle spell or being smashed 
against rocks. The ship appears outwardly mauled, but upon close inspection miraculously 
escapes without any serious damage.
Passion-Unveiling Glance (••)
Resonance: Empathy
The Abyssal learns to weight the hearts of others, tasting the embers of their passions as the dead 
do.
System: The Abyssal may stare openly, intently, and unnervingly at someone for a few 
moments, then roll Perception + Empathy against a difficulty of (target’s Willpower). Success 
tells her the target’s current emotional state.
Subordinate Inspiration Method (••)
Resonance: Bureaucracy
The Abyssal inspires a flagging project, weary team, or ill-run enterprise back into excellent 
working order by demonstrating the price of continuing to disappoint her.
System: The Abyssal may inspire the people working upon a project by gathering at least a few 
of them up and executing someone in front of them, making it clear that unless results improve, 
those responsible for disappointing her will suffer a similar fate. Everyone involved in pushing 
the project forward reduces the difficulty of all rolls to do so by –2 for the rest of the story. In 
narrative terms, the project steams forward with uncanny speed and efficiency.
This Charm can be used to inspire a project whose workers comprise a group with a Size no 
greater than the Abyssal’s Essence rating for free. For larger projects, she must pay a number of 
Motes equal to the difference between the Size of the team being inspired and her Essence rating. 
If the group being inspired is substantially larger than Size 5, the Abyssal must also spend a point 
of Willpower.
Thought-Stealing Stare (••)
Resonance: Awareness, Empathy
Staring intently into someone’s eyes, the Abyssal hears the echoes of their thoughts.
System: Make a contested roll of (Wits or Appearance) + (Presence, Performance, or Socialize)
against Wits + Awareness (both at difficulty 6) to catch and hold someone’s eye, if it can’t be 
arranged by other means. If the Abyssal wins by one success, she catches the target’s eyes for a 
few moments. Three successes gives her a minute or two of sustained contact. Five successes lets 
her keep the target’s gaze fixed on her through an entire conversation.
Spending 1 Mote allows the Abyssal to read someone’s surface thoughts for as long as she can 
maintain eye contact.
Elegant Courtier Training Method (•••)
Resonance: Bureaucracy, Socialize
By putting a mortal through a dedicated training regimen, the Abyssal can prepare him to 
smoothly facilitate the running of a nation, bureau, or court. In little more than a week, an 
Abyssal with this Charm can transform a group of illiterate buffoons into efficacious bureaucrats, 
advisors, messengers, and advocates.
System: The Abyssal dedicates herself to educating a group of students, subjecting them to daily 
lectures and rigorous testing under her oversight, which take up at least one hour every day over 
the course of two weeks. She can dedicate her efforts to the training of a group of up to Size 
(current Essence rating, maximum 5) at a time. While she’s actively training a group of students, 
her maximum Mote pool is reduced by one. She can reclaim this capacity by abandoning her 
students’ training, but if she does this and returns to their tutelage later, she must start their 
training over from scratch.
After two weeks, ignorant peasants gain an Expertise pool of 5 and an Aptitude for one of the 
following: Bureaucracy, diplomacy, politics, sailing, message delivery, or trade. They also 
become literate. Already-competent courtiers, diplomats, sailors, and so on instead gain an 
Expertise pool of 7. Experts in the Abyssal’s class advance to an Expertise pool of 9. A group of 
students may be run through this training regimen repeatedly to hone them from total ignorance 
to Elegant Courtiers, or to branch them out into multidisciplinary mastery, if the Solar has 
sufficient time and inclination.
If a protagonist partakes of Elegant Courtier training, then after two weeks of training they may 
purchase one dot of Bureaucracy, Linguistics, Presence, Ride, Sail, or Socialize as though it were 
a Favored Ability.
Honey-Tongued Serpent Attack (•••)
Resonance: Performance, Socialize
Layering entropic Essence into the social milieu, the Abyssal poisons the reputation of one of her 
enemies.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Manipulation + Socialize against a difficulty of (4 + highest of 
the target’s Allies, Backing, Command, Influence, or Resources). While this Charm can’t ensure 
that everyone believes whatever terrible rumor the Abyssal wishes to spread, success does 
guarantee that within a day or two, everyone who matters has at least heard it.
Apocalyptic Effect: By spending 3 Motes rather than 2 when activating Honey-Tongued 
Serpent Attack, the Abyssal may define the scope of the damage her rumors inflict, causing the 
target to lose a dot of the Background she chooses to target. This can only damage social 
Backgrounds like Resources and Connections.
Imprecation of Ill Manners (•••)
Resonance: Presence, Socialize
The Abyssal’s dignity is as unimpeachable and certain as death itself. Those who attempt to 
slander her only prove themselves the true fools.
System: When slighted, humiliated, or accused of wrongdoing, the player can reflexively spend 
1 Mote and roll Manipulation + Socialize against the accuser’s resisted Charisma + Socialize 
(both difficulty 6). Should the Abyssal gain more successes, then everyone present becomes 
convinced the aggressor was in fact the one who belittled, insulted, or implicated herself.
Apocalyptic Effect: Upon successfully deploying Imprecation of Ill Manners, the Abyssal not 
only turns the tables, but she also may imbed an unflattering belief about the aggressor in the 
minds of all those who saw him reveal himself through his boorishness, such that he is 
untrustworthy, two-faced, short-tempered, a likely wife-beater, or a pedophile. Those with an 
Intimacy toward the one so defamed are able to shake off the impression, but most strangers 
accept it uncritically.
Screaming in Silence (•••)
Resonance: Empathy, Linguistics
The Abyssal speaks the Greater Word of Unmaking, that which unravels the ego and severs the 
connection between heart and soul for those who lack the will to resist it.
System: Spend 3 Essence and roll Charisma + Linguistics against difficulty 8 in order to project 
the perfect syllables that will shatter a selected target’s very being. This condemnation must be 
delivered verbally, to the target’s face, while they have 0 Willpower points. If the roll succeeds, 
the target’s soul leaves their body, and they die soon after. Antagonists can be targeted at any 
time their Resolve is 3 or lower. The soul-eaten victims of the Fair Folk are also vulnerable to 
being destroyed by this Charm, as are artificial beings with no real personality.
The Abyssal must be familiar enough with her target to be able to sum up who they are in at least 
very broad strokes, else she cannot craft a proper word to destroy them.
Apocalyptic Effect: When the target hears the Greater Word of Unmaking, they lose a number 
of points of Willpower equal to the successes the Abyssal’s player rolled. If this reduces them to 
0 Willpower, Screaming in Silence kills them.
Unholy Unwitting Pact (•••)
Resonance: Empathy, Investigation, Socialize
Even honor decays. This Charm reveals the price for which the target would give anything, even 
their very soul.
System: Spend 3 Motes and roll Perception + Empathy against a difficulty of the target’s 
Willpower. Success reveals the price that will cause the target to do what the Abyssal wants, 
whether it’s as simple as a sum of money or as daunting as the return of a dead loved one.
Apocalyptic Effect: Should the Abyssal accumulate five or more successes when using Unholy 
Unwitting Pact, she also gains an instinctive hunch where to start looking to find the price she’s 
uncovered, if she doesn’t have it already.
World-Selling Salesman Connections (•••)
Resonance: Bureaucracy, Socialize
The Abyssal’s Essence insinuates itself through the worlds of the living and the dead, connecting 
her to whatever she needs in the moment.
System: By spending an hour within some place of death and spending 3 Motes, the Abyssal 
may grant herself a dot of a social Background of her choice for the next 24 hours, letting her 
Essence lead her to the needed contacts, money, support, or whatever else.
Apocalyptic Effect: This Charm grants two dots of Backgrounds, which may be assigned to the 
same Background or separately.