General Charms
The following Charms count as Favored Charms for all Alchemicals.
Transitory Augmentation of Industrial Endeavor (•)
Type: Standard
Miniature Essence reservoirs are embedded throughout the Alchemical’s body, allowing her to
supercharge her actions, thoughts, or words.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote and choose an Attribute when activating this Charm, then add
(the Attribute being rolled) in dice to all rolls using that Attribute for (Essence rating + 1) rounds
in combat, or minutes outside of combat. The added dice are based off of the Attribute’s rating
on the Alchemical’s character sheet, plus any dots added by Sustained Augmentation of
Industry.
This Charm can be activated repeatedly to empower additional Attributes, but Motes must be
spent to add dice to each Attribute separately. Alchemicals begin play able to empower their
Caste and Favored Attributes.
Versatile Efficacy Update: (Attribute) (1xp): Each purchase of this submodule adds one
additional Attribute that the Alchemical may empower with Transitory Augmentation of
Industrial Endeavor.
Sustained Augmentation of Industry (•)
Type: Standard
The Alchemical fortifies her capabilities with mechanical implants such as synthetic
musculature, neuron-enhancing webs within her brain, or a literally sculpted body.
System: While this Charm is installed, the Alchemical increases all of her Caste Attributes by
+1. This enhancement may raise her Attribute totals above 5.
Secondary Augmentation: (Attribute) (1xp): Each purchase of this submodule adds one Favored
Attribute which receives the benefit of Sustained Augmentation of Industry while it is installed.
Tertiary Augmentation: (Attribute) (2xp): Each purchase of this submodule adds one non-Caste,
non-Favored Attribute which receives the benefit of Sustained Augmentation of Industry while it
is installed.
Transpuissant Industrial Miracle Upgrade (•)
Type: Unique
Hair-thin wires threaded through the Alchemical’s body directly connect her Essence reservoir to
one of her Charms, perfectly harmonizing it with her body and fundamental identity.
System: This Charm is unique, in that it needs not be installed in an array slot and is always
active after being purchased. The Alchemical’s player selects a single standard Alchemical
Charm, which is now permanently installed in the character’s Charm array without occupying a
slot or counting against her installation limits. Transitory Augmentation of Industrial Endeavor,
Sustained Augmentation of Industrial Endeavor, and Strain Resistant Chassis Modification are
not valid selections.
An Alchemical must be Essence 4+ to purchase this Charm.
Alchemical Attributes
Unless it says otherwise, any Charms which modify something by a value equal to
an Alchemical’s Attribute rating do incorporate the bonus dot granted by Sustained
Augmentation of Industry into that calculation.
Combat Charms
Chemical Fog Generator (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina, Manipulation
This bulky Charm fits snugly into the Alchemical’s torso, with an assortment of vent tubes of
varying sizes branching out to exhaust ports in the Exalt’s skin and throat. When activated, the
device churns out thick streamers of black smoke from as many of the vents as desired.
System: Spend 1 Mote and a turn’s concentration to activate this Charm. The smoke quickly
expands into a cloud encompassing everything within (Essence rating) zones of the Exalt. Those
caught within the fog suffer a –3 penalty to all actions due to poor visibility and the fog’s
choking, eye-burning properties. Everyone who breathes the fog must also soak two levels of
automatic bashing damage per turn. The Alchemical is immunized against her own fog. It lasts
for the rest of the scene, and does not move with the Exalt, though she may trigger this Charm
again after moving to create a new smog and cover more zones.
Tear Gas (1xp): The Alchemical may emit a pale, searing cloud that causes swelling and
irritation of the eyes without inflicting actual damage. Those caught in the cloud suffer a –3
penalty to all actions, but do not take damage.
Undetectable (1xp): The Alchemical may emit a clear, odorless gas if desired. The fog retains
any of its normal properties such as irritating the eyes and throat (or the properties of another
submodule, if a non-standard mode is employed), but the source of the problem isn’t obvious,
nor is how to get away from it.
Nerve Gas (2xp): The Alchemical may emit a yellow, menacing fog rather than the usual
chemical concoction. This inflicts one level of automatic lethal damage per turn, rather than two
levels of bashing, in addition to the standard dice pool penalty.
Soul Gas (2xp): The Alchemical may emit a writhing violet cloud rather than the usual chemical
concoction. Those who breathe the gas suffer horrifying hallucinations based on their deepest
and most primal fears, and must make a Willpower roll against difficulty 8 or else flee in terror
until they’ve been out of the cloud for (Essence rating) turns, or are restrained or attacked,
bringing them back to their senses.
Divinity-Unveiling Cloud (3xp): The Alchemical may emit a luminous fog of in scintillant,
shifting hues. Any dematerialized beings caught within the cloud may be seen and physically
interacted with by material creatures so long as they remain within the fog.
Knockout Gas (3xp): The Alchemical may emit a thick crimson fog rather than the usual smoke
cloud. Those who breathe this gas must make a Stamina + Resistance roll against difficulty 8 or
fall unconscious for the next (Essence x 20) minutes. Suffering any damage or violent jarring
will wake up someone rendered unconscious by this Charm. Essence-users roll against difficulty
6.
Dedicated Harmonic Targeting (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity, Perception
Tinted lenses snap into place over the Exalt’s eyes and burn with targeting glyphs, guiding her
attacks to devastating effect.
System: When the Alchemical spends a point of Willpower to enhance an attack roll, she lowers
the difficulty by an additional –1.
Target-Tracking Algorithm (2xp): Once per scene, the Alchemical may spend a point of
Willpower and apply its benefits (as enhanced by this Charm) to all actions she takes that turn.
Dynamic Reaction Enhancement System (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity
This Charm adorns the Alchemical’s shoulders and hips, using crackling lightning injections to
speed her defensive reactions and hasten her footwork.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For next (1 + Essence rating) rounds,
each result of 1 rolled on attacks against the Alchemical by a protagonist subtracts one from that
attack’s base damage while this Charm is active. Attacks aimed at her by antagonists instead
increase their damage by one point per three successes rolled rather than the usual two. Finally,
all group attacks against the Alchemical while this Charm is active do not add Size to their
Expertise pool or base damage.
Accelerated Response System (3xp): Up to (Essence rating) times per battle, the Alchemical may
move even if she is attacked before her turn so long as this Charm is installed.
Transconductive Neural Systems (3xp): This Charm’s duration becomes (3 + Essence rating)
rounds.
Electrification Onslaught Dynamo (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina, Wits
A gold-and-copper dynamo protrudes from the Alchemical’s back. When she charges it with
Essence, her entire body crawls with a nimbus of crackling electricity.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to charge the dynamo. For the rest of the scene, increase the
base damage of all hand-to-hand attacks the Exalt makes by +2. Additionally, anyone who
strikes her with his bare hands or with a conductive weapon must soak two levels of bashing
damage.
Electroconductive Field (2xp): The Alchemical may also add this Charm’s damage bonus to all
ranged attacks she makes which involve any sort of physical projectile.
Essence Pulse Cannon (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity, Perception
The Exalt has a bank of Essence capacitors and crystalline lenses installed within her arm,
terminating in a cannon assembly of reinforced brass and steel. Depending on the Alchemical’s
preference, the Charm’s barrel may emerge from the back of a forearm or pivot on a shoulder
mount.
System: Readying the cannon to fire is reflexive. Roll Dexterity + Archery to aim attacks made
with this Charm. It has a range of two zones, obeys the rules of an Archery weapon, and has a
base damage of 7L.
Reflexively spending 1 Mote makes its damage explosive, forcing everything within the same
zone as its primary target soak one level of lethal damage if the shot connects.
Discreet (1xp): The Essence Pulse Cannon is miniaturized and mounted within the eyes or the
palm of a hand, and is perfectly concealed from detection until fired. Using the Essence Pulse
Cannon in this mode while Integrated Artifact Transmogrifier is active doesn’t end that Charm’s
effects or require the expenditure of 1 Willpower for a subtle deployment.
Stunning Bolt (1xp): The Essence Pulse cannon may fire pale blasts of concussive force which
inflict bashing rather than lethal damage.
Guidance Ray (2xp): A crystalline lens affixed to the cannon paints targets with a laser reticle,
adding two bonus dice to attack rolls made with this Charm.
Intensified Beam (4xp): The Alchemical may overcharge her shots so that the core of the
weapon’s non-explosive blasts burns through targets with incredible power, rewarding precision
marksmanship. Reflexively pay 1 Mote; the weapon’s attacks inflict aggravated damage for the
next (Essence rating) rounds.
Hyperdextrous Tentacle Apparatus (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity, Wits
Flexible metal tentacles emerge from an assembly housing in the Exalt’s torso, each ending in
articulated grasping claws. She can use these tentacles to manipulate the world around her in the
same manner as her other limbs, and when in battle, can feed a charge of Essence into a
dedicated battle subroutine within the Charm, allowing them to attack on her behalf without
conscious effort.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote while in combat. At the end of the round, after all other
characters have acted, roll an extra (Strength or Dexterity) + (Brawl or Martial Arts) attack with
base damage 5B against a single opponent in the same zone. This Charm persists for the
Alchemical’s (Essence rating) in rounds.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Weaponized Armatures (1xp): The tentacles end in deployable blades, cutting torches, or some
similar form of weaponry, and inflict lethal rather than bashing damage.
Defensive Armatures (3xp): While this Charm is active, all attacks directed against the
Alchemical discard one success.
Integrated Arsenal System (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina, Intelligence, Wits
A space-folding storage system adorns the Alchemical’s arms, back, and thighs, from which she
can unfold and assemble nearly any mundane personal-scale weapon.
System: By taking an action and spending 1 Mote, the Exalt can assemble any personal-scale
mundane weapon she desires out of her body; this weapon persists for the rest of the scene, and
cannot be discarded; nor can the Alchemical be disarmed, because the weapon is physically
attached to her. Created weapons may be anything from carbon-steel blades to a wrist-anchored
bow. This Charm doesn’t generate ammunition for ranged weapons; that requires the
Protosynthetic Ammunition Replicator Charm.
Default Deployment Programming (1xp): The Alchemical may define one specific weapon per
purchase of this submodule. Deploying this specific weapon with her Integrated Arsenal system
doesn’t cost a Mote.
Integrated Deployment Armatures (1xp): This Charm’s activation is reflexive, and doesn’t
require an action.
Interceptor Battle Harness (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity, Stamina
This bulky Charm is installed upon the Alchemical’s back. When empowered with Essence, it
unfolds either a series of reinforced, telescoping waldos or a waving nest of Essence emitters
which fire hardened anima-sparks. The purpose of both configurations is the same: to knock
aside attacks directed at the Alchemical’s allies.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to apply a protect action to a comrade in the same zone. This
protection continues until one of the characters moves to a different zone.
Hardened Attachment Points (2xp): The Interceptor Harness is distributed across more of the
Alchemical’s body rather than concentrated on her back, lending slightly greater flexibility and
also increasing her soak pool by +2 dice while it is installed.
Interposition Algorithm (3xp): By reflexively spending 1 Mote, the Alchemical can force an
attack to target herself rather than an ally, yet also rob it of its threshold successes.
Iron Maiden Implants (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina
Tiny metal rings stud the Alchemical’s entire body, housing retractable iron spikes.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to prime the spikes for instant deployment and retraction. For
the rest of the scene, the Exalt’s unarmed attacks inflict a base damage of 6L. Additionally,
anyone who strikes her with his bare hands must soak two levels of lethal damage, and anyone
who tackles her or grapples with her must soak two levels of aggravated damage at the end of
every round in which they do so.
Integrated Agony Engine (2xp): Upon inflicting damage to an enemy with Iron Maiden Implants,
the Exalt may choose to catch her foe upon her body-barbs. He cannot move away from her
without either suffering one level of unsoakable lethal damage as he tears himself free, or
succeeding at a reflexive Dexterity + (Athletics or Medicine) roll against difficulty 9 to
disentangle himself without further damage. The Alchemical may reflexively release a snared
enemy; if she does not, then her own movement becomes complex movement and drags her foe
with her.
Piston-Driven Megaton Hammer (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Strength
This Charm takes the form of a piston ringed with Essence injection vents in one of the
Alchemical’s limbs. Upon making a close combat attack with the selected limb, the piston may
be triggered with a terrible whistling shriek of steam and an explosive bang.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. Whenever an attack the Alchemical makes during the rest of
the round succeeds, count its successes twice when adding them to the attack’s threshold
damage.
Optimized Demolition Vibration (3xp): Once per scene, the Exalt may activate this Charm for
(Essence rating) rounds.
Rhythmic Destruction Cadence (3xp): So long as the Alchemical activates Piston-Driven
Megaton Hammer in every consecutive round, its strikes grow more powerful. In each round
after the first, the difficulty of the Alchemical’s hammer-enhanced damage rolls are lowered by –
1 and the base damage of her hammer-enhanced strikes increased by +1.
Unstoppable Impulse Engine (3xp): By activating this Charm for 2 Motes, the Exalt may count
successes three times when adding them to threshold damage.
Protosynthetic Ammunition Replicator (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity, Stamina, Wits
The Exalt possesses a ribbed plate on her inner forearm. When the need arises, this plate splits
open and a tiny armature unfolds from within, bearing ammunition appropriate for whatever
ranged weapon the Exalt is wielding. Generally the armature offers an Essence-sculpted
crossbow bolt and loads it into the Alchemical’s weapon, but standard arrows and even throwing
weapons no longer than the Alchemical’s forearm are possible. Expended ammunition or thrown
weapons sublimate into pure Essence after a minute or so.
System: The Exalt effectively has an unlimited supply of ammunition on her person, and can
prepare a throwing weapon reflexively.
Hardened Anima Darts (3xp): The Alchemical may produce weapons and ammunition which
retain their solidity for 25 hours, and in sufficiently substantial numbers to arm a group of up to
Size (Alchemical’s Essence rating) before the Charm’s Essence reserves are exhausted and it
must shut down for 25 hours. Reflexively spending 1 Mote during this dormancy period diverts
just enough power to its exhausted mechanisms for it to supply the Alchemical herself with
standard, short-lived ammunition according to the Charm’s unaugmented function for a scene.
Pulseweb Entanglement Grenade (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina, Strength
A bulky brass turret encloses one of the Alchemical’s shoulders. When the Alchemical fingers its
activation stud, it fires an explosive grenade of glowing, sticky alchemical glue.
System: Roll Dexterity + (Archery or Thrown) to aim this projectile, which has an effective
range of two zones. Anyone struck by it suffers a –4 die penalty to all actions per coating until
they employ a complex movement and reflexively roll Strength + Athletics (difficulty 9) to
disentangle themselves. Webbed or otherwise “stuck” victims also treat all movement as
complex, and cannot move at all with two coatings. Alternately, the Alchemical can use the
grenades for utility purposes such as gluing a door shut, or creating a sticky trap on the floor that
characters must use complex movement to bypass.
Electroconductive Gel (2xp): The Alchemical may reflexively pay 1 Mote to charge her
Pulseweb Entanglement Grenades with a powerful Essence-conductive chemical for the rest of
the scene. Those coated in, touching, or moving through the charged glue are electrocuted while
in contact with it, and must soak two levels of bashing damage per turn of exposure.
Rotary Assault Drill (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Strength
The Alchemical possesses a long, retractable drill mounted somewhere on her body. Generally
this Charm is installed to emerge either from the back of the wrist and to extend over the
Alchemical’s fist, or from an iris-port in the palm of her hand, but elbow and knee-mounted
versions are also sometimes employed.
System: The Alchemical may reflexively deploy her drill. It may be deployed as a Brawl,
Martial Arts, or Melee weapon (Dexterity or Strength, 7L). She may also burrow through any
surface softer than solid metal as a form of complex movement.
Adamant-Tipped (1xp): The Alchemical may tunnel through even solid metal bulkheads.
Tether-Drill Attack (2xp): Pneumatic drivers allow the Alchemical to launch her drill as a
Dexterity + Thrown attack against opponents up to one zone away, then retract it back to her
body with an attached cable.
Toroidal Shockwave Catalyst (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Strength
A pair of spherical crystal capacitors adorn the Alchemical’s shoulders. When charged with
Essence, they glow brightly and emit a massive shockwave, hurling everything near her away
with great force.
System: Spend a turn concentrating and spend 1 Mote to unleash the shockwave. Everyone and
everything within the same zone as the Alchemical is hurled into an adjacent zone, knocked
prone, and must soak two levels of bashing damage unless they weigh several tons or generate
three successes on a reflexive Stamina + Resistance roll.
Inferno Device (2xp): The Alchemical may arm her Toroidal Shockwave Catalyst such that it
produces a massive wave of superheated air in addition to its usual shockwave. Rather than two
levels of bashing damage, targets must instead soak two levels of lethal damage, and flammable
objects may be set on fire. This damage applies even if the necessary successes on the Stamina +
Resistance roll are achieved.
Body-Reweaving Matrix (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Stamina
Hidden compartments scattered across the Alchemical’s body hide colonies of thumbnail-sized
automatons shaped roughly like metallic spiders. When activated, these compartments open and
the colonies awaken. Hundreds of the tiny machines swarm out across the Exalt’s body,
clustering around any wounds they find. The automatons work quickly and tirelessly, spinning
strands of unformed Essence that congeal into new matter. Where the spiders pass, they leave
flesh and Charms restored to pristine condition.
System: Spend 2 Motes reflexively to activate this Charm. For the rest of the scene, the
Alchemical reflexively heals 2 bashing or 1 lethal damage at the beginning of each turn. If she
spends a turn taking no action save to concentrate on pulling her body back together, she can
heal a level of aggravated damage.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Celerity Enabling Module (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Dexterity, Intelligence
A line of chrome wires and nodes climbs the Alchemical’s spine and connects to an adamant
calculating array inside her skull. Faced with an attack, this array calculates a perfect evasive
position and automatically shifts the Alchemical’s body with clockwork precision to avoid harm.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm for the rest of the scene. Upon
activation, and at the beginning of each subsequent round, select a particular foe or group as the
focus of this Charm’s defensive calculations. All attacks against the Alchemical by that foe
subtract one success from their total rolled, and the Alchemical’s Defense value is increased by
+2 against that enemy. If this would raise her Defense above 9, her attacker is forced to discard
an additional success from their attacks.
Threat Prioritization Algorithm (3xp): The Alchemical select up to (Essence rating + 1) foes for
this Charm to protect her from each round.
Precalculated Action Calibrations (3xp): While this Charm is active, the Alchemical can opt to
simply go first, before any of her opponents has a chance to act, up to (Essence rating) times per
scene.
Hundredfold Strafing Engine (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Dexterity, Wits
A secondary nervous system is woven across and throughout the Exalt’s skin, radiating outward
from her Exaltation Core. This network appears to be an array of circuit-board patterns tattooed
onto the Alchemical, which glow while in use.
System: Reflexively spend 2 Motes. The Alchemical may take a second turn after all other
characters have acted, using it to launch an attack at a target of her choice.
Alternately, spend 1 Mote and use the Alchemical’s turn to launch an attack against a group. The
difficulty of this attack is lowered by –2, and if successful, it adds (Attribute used to attack)
successes to its damage roll.
Impenetrable Repulsor Field (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Stamina
Bulky brass power couplings in the Exalt’s shoulders feed out wires linked to crystalline repulsor
arrays in her hands. When she activates this Charm, the Alchemical throws up a crackling,
invulnerable force-burst capable of turning aside any attack.
System: Once per scene, when faced with an attack or similar form of danger, the Alchemical
may declare that she perfectly parries it. The attack fails to strike the Alchemical without any
further dice rolls. Area-of-effect attacks and the like harmlessly splash around her Essencefueled defense. This defense cannot be invoked against unexpected attacks.
The Alchemical may reset the limitation of this Charm and make it available again by avoiding
an attack without employing a perfect defense to do so.
Repeating Pneumatic Bow (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Dexterity
When powered down, this Charm appears to be a bulky series of armored panels adorning one of
the Alchemical’s arms. Upon activation, panels split aside and a heavy tubular mechanism folds
out and extends its telescoping barrel just over the Alchemical’s wrist, even as four powerful
metal stabilizing fins unfold around device. Tubes and wires connect this machine to the
underlying supports and bulbous Essence capacitors housed inside the arm itself, carrying power
and high-pressure steam. An activated Repeating Pneumatic Bow hisses from venting pressure
valves and thrums ominously as it charges.
System: Spend 1 Mote and a turn in concentration to activate this weapon for a scene, or do so
reflexively and at no cost if the character also has a Protosynthetic Ammunition Replicator
installed. The Repeating Pneumatic Bow is an Archery weapon (Dexterity, 10L) with its own
internal ammunition feed: it solidifies metal spikes from the Exalt’s own Essence and can fire
them at targets up to three zones away.
Alternately, the Alchemical may spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower and make an Archery attack with
this weapon against the highest Defense rating in a zone she targets, applying its result to
everyone in that zone.
Finally, the Alchemical may spend 1 Mote and use her turn to launch an attack with this weapon
against a group. Double the attack’s base damage.
Subluminous Onslaught Missile (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Dexterity
The Alchemical either replaces one entire forearm with a retractable cannon housing, or else her
lower torso is a band of metal with an intimidating iris where her navel should be. When this
Charm is active, either the arm transforms and repurposes into a cannon, or the iris opens to
display a churning vortex of Essence, with thin armatures unfolding to brace the character in
place against the violence of the weapon she is about to unleash. A moment later, the Alchemical
fires a deadly lance of crystallized Essence at a significant fraction of the speed of light.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll Dexterity + Archery to aim this Charm. It can strike at any target
whose position the Exalt is aware of at distances of up to a mile, and can smash through walls up
to a foot thick in order to reach him. If the lance strikes its target, it explodes within his flesh,
inflicting a base damage of 10A. 1s do not subtract successes from this Charm’s damage roll.
Subluminous Onslaught Missile can’t be fired again for two rounds afterwards.
Siege Devastator (2xp): The Alchemical may fire this Charm up to three rounds in a row before
it has to cool down, but the cost of the second shot is 2 Motes and the cost of the third is 3
Motes.
Perfected Lotus Matrix (•••)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Martial Arts
This Charm takes the form of a pair of starmetal beads set into the Alchemical’s temples, each
ringed with a wheel of five memory crystals, each painstakingly cut to contain one thousand
facets, providing an infinite library in which to store accumulated mastery of martial supernatural
martial arts techniques.
System: Without this Charm, an Alchemical cannot purchase Martial Arts Charms. With it
installed, she practices Martial Arts as one of the Celestial Exalted. Once this Charm is
installed, it can never be removed.
Physical Enhancement Charms
Alloyed Reinforcement of Flesh (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina
The Alchemical’s bones are plated in metal, with reinforcing wires and struts added to connect
all of her major organs and muscle systems.
System: While this Charm is installed, the Alchemical halves any bashing damage she suffers
(round down) after soak.
Reinforcing Caps (1xp): The bones of the Alchemical’s knees, elbows, knuckles, and feet gain
an extra-thick capping of metal, allowing her to inflict lethal damage with unarmed strikes.
Consciousness-Compelling Mechanism (3xp): The Alchemical cannot be rendered unconscious
by bashing damage while this Charm is installed.
Essence Shield Projector (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina
When charged with Essence, crystal lattices embedded in the Alchemical’s skin sculpt her anima
into an impenetrable barrier.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. The Alchemical adds the higher of her
Strength or Stamina (after modification by Sustained Augmentation of Industry) to all soak rolls
for the rest of the scene. However, one of these bonus dice vanishes each time she soaks damage,
until the Charm exhausts itself completely. This Charm can be activated again at any time to
restore the barrier to full strength.
Anima Hardening Array (2xp): This Charm activates at no cost the first time in each scene the
Exalt’s anima flares.
Light-Etched Interceptor Barrier (3xp): Activating this Charm also produces a set of hardened
anima barriers on the back of the Alchemical’s wrists for the rest of the scene, allowing her to
enjoy the benefits of the sword and board fighting style.
Hydraulic Musculature Reinforcement (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Strength
Reinforcing pneumatic musculature is threaded throughout the Exalt’s body.
System: The difficulty of feats of strength to lift or break something are lowered by –3. The
Alchemical may reflexively spend 1 Mote to cause her hand-to-hand attacks to increase their
base damage by +2 for the rest of the scene.
Industrial Titan Exertion (2xp): The Alchemical may spend 1 Mote to gain (Essence rating)
automatic successes on a feat of strength.
Pillar-Wielding Hero Calibration (3xp): The Alchemical may wield two-handed striking
weapons with a single hand, allowing her to employ such weapons with sword and board, dual
wielding, or freehanding combat styles.
Insectile Locomotion Upgrade (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity
The Exalt’s legs are replaced by a mechanical assembly resembling a spider’s thorax, from
which a number of powerful mechanical legs extend.
System: The Alchemical enjoys the benefits of mounted combat (see p. XX), substituting
Athletics in place of Ride. She can also climb walls as easily as she can walk across floors, and
reduces the difficulty of any roll to maintain her balance or stability by –2. Her kicks inflict
lethal damage. Finally, she can rotate her torso 360 degrees on the mounting ring connecting her
upper body to the mechanical thorax.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Leg Anchors (1xp): The Exalt may use her movement for the round to reflexively extend spikes
from her legs into the ground, making her utterly impervious to attempts to forcibly move her or
knock her down. She is, of course, immobilized while the anchors are deployed. Retracting them
requires another movement action, meaning that the Exalt must do so in the round before she
resumes moving freely.
Limb Extension Armatures (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity
Depending on configuration, the Alchemical features complex telescoping articulation in all
limbs or stretching nanofluid implants.
System: The Alchemical might potentially lower the difficulty for interacting with hard-to-reach
targets, as she can snake her body around corners or through twisty confines. She can launch
close-range Brawl, Martial Arts, and Melee attacks against targets in adjacent zones at +1
difficulty.
Limb Reinforcement Bracing (2xp): The Alchemical’s armatures are reinforced for added
stability, negating the +1 difficulty penalty to attack adjacent zones.
Modular Anatomy Modification (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Perception, Wits
Metallic rings mark the Exalt’s neck and limbs, allowing her to detach parts of her body and
control them autonomously.
System: The Exalt can voluntarily detach her head, hands, arms, legs, or any other limbs she
may have gained by installing other Charms such as Multi-Limb Frame, and control them as
though they were still attached to her body. If an Exalt is forced to abandon a separated limb, it
slowly sublimates back into Essence over the course of 24 hours, reforming at her home vats
complex where she must venture to have it reattached. The Alchemical can also abandon her
entire body in an extreme emergency so long as her head escapes.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Anatomical Detonation Protocols (3xp): The Alchemical may spend 1 Mote to remotely detonate
a detached limb in a blast of Essence. Everyone within the same zone as the limb at the time of
remote detonation must soak three levels of lethal damage. The Alchemical automatically suffers
one level of unsoakable aggravated damage from the violence of the feedback. Alternately, she
may overcharge a remote limb by paying 1 Mote per turn (she can’t spend faster than that,
regardless of her Essence rating) before finally paying the cost to detonate. Each Essence spent
overcharging the limb increases the damage it inflicts by two, but also causes the limb to display
a steadily intensifying anima banner and to crackle and hum alarmingly with power as it spasms
and shakes.
Multi-Limb Frame (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity, Wits
The Exalt has additional limbs surgically fitted into skeletal hardpoints. In most cases, these
appendages have a blatantly mechanical, insectoid design, with spindly metal bones, pneumatic
joints and delicately articulated pincer digits. Other limbs replicate humanoid design more
closely.
Alternately, the Alchemical may completely replace both of her arms with mechanical
prosthetics capable of splitting into multiple spindly but efficacious limbs.
System: While sporting additional limbs, the Alchemical may potentially use multiple fighting
styles (see p. XX) at once. If she either remains unarmed or goes all-in on dual wielding, then her
dual wielding benefit can be used an extra time per battle.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Dedicated Battle Limbs (1xp): One of the Alchemical’s limbs terminates in an integrated
mundane weapon. This weapon is always considered ready for battle, and cannot be disarmed as
it is a part of her body. This Charm can be purchased as many times as the Alchemical has extra
limbs.
Manifold Limb Frame (1xp): Each purchase of this submodule grants an additional pair of extra
limbs.
Personal Gravity Manipulation Apparatus (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity
This Charm is housed as a set of reinforcing components and Essence capacitors in the lower
legs. When activated, the device allows the Alchemical to twist gravity’s pull in one of two
ways.
System: The character can change the orientation of “down” relative to herself at will, allowing
her to run and walk along walls and ceilings. Alternately, she can reduce her own weight to as
little as 10% of normal, such that her jumping distance and height is quadrupled and the
difficulty of rolls to perform long jumps is reduced by –3.
Hypergravity Focal Sink (1xp): The Exalt may reflexively increase her gravitic bond to whatever
surface she’s standing on (Essence rating) times per scene, automatically negating an attempt to
forcibly move her or knock her prone.
Parabolic Leap Overcharger Device (2xp): The Exalt may reflexively pay 1 Mote to jump a gap
up to a quarter-mile wide or to leap up to a point up to a quarter-mile above her.
Phoenix Renewal Engine (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina, Intelligence
A crystalline ring surrounds the Exalt’s soulgem, storing a backup copy of her memories and
soul.
System: Upon the Exalt’s death, her soulgem detaches from her corpse, along with this Charm,
and either attempts to inconspicuously tumble into some out-of-the-way place or is violently
flung free into an obscure location where it will be hopefully overlooked. Once it has been left
unobserved and unattended for at least a few hours, it proceeds to grow a new copy of the
Alchemical’s body over the course of the next 25 hours, restoring her to life with an undamaged
health track. This Charm expends all of its stored power upon performing such a resurrection,
and cannot trigger again until the Alchemical has undergone a full day of recalibration at the
vats.
Plasma Thruster Assembly (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Strength, Dexterity, Wits
The Exalt has a pair of heavily shielded nozzles mounted in the soles of her feet or in a
retractable mechanism on her back, along with smaller, semi-concealed maneuvering thrusters.
Regardless of their placement, the Charm has the same effect, propelling the Alchemical at great
speed on jets of glowing force.
System: By reflexively spending 1 Mote when she reflexively moves to another zone, the
Alchemical can move two zones instead. If she immediately strikes an opponent upon arrival
after doing so with a hand-to-hand attack and it succeeds, she may send him flying into an
adjacent zone and knock him prone.
If the character also has Personal Gravity Manipulation Apparatus installed, she may spend 2
Motes to fly as a form of complex movement for the rest of the scene.
Integrated Flight Verniers (2xp): The Exalt may deploy Plasma Thruster Assembly’s flight mode
even without Personal Gravity Manipulation Apparatus installed in her current array.
Polymodal Joint Bearings (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity
All of the Exalt’s joints have been enhanced with ball-bearing races and mechanical assemblies
that grant superhuman flexibility.
System: While this Charm is installed, the difficulty of all rolls to squeeze through tight spaces
or escape from bonds are reduced by –2. The Exalt can also slide through any opening big
enough to admit her head as a form of complex movement.
Collapsible Joint Recombination (1xp): The Alchemical may slide through any opening big
enough to admit a finger.
Strain Resistant Chassis Modification (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina
The Exalt fortifies her body through the installation of redundant organs and reinforcing struts.
System: The character permanently gains an additional set of one (–1) and two (–2) health
levels.
Divine Tenacity Upgrade (3xp): Each purchase of this submodule grants another set of health
levels, as though the Charm were installed twice. This submodule can be purchased a number of
times equal to (the Alchemical’s unaugmented Stamina rating – 1).
Subcutaneous/Exoskeletal Armor Plating (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina
Depending on the desired configuration, the Exalt either has a fully articulated mesh of dense
plates inserted under her skin, or else a carapace of heavy armor riveted onto her flesh.
System: If the Alchemical opts for the subcutaneous version of this Charm, she rolls soak at –1
difficulty. If she opts for the exoskeletal version, she may not wear true armor, but is considered
to be wearing heavy armor with a soak bonus of +7.
Dynamic Installation (1xp): The Alchemical possesses both versions of this Charm, though it can
only be installed in one configuration or the other at a time.
Transformative Body Shell (1xp): By spending a turn in concentration, the Alchemical may cause
this Charm to change between one configuration and the other, sinking into her flesh or emerging
to clad her in armor. Dynamic Installation must be purchased in order to buy this submodule.
Pain Suppression Nodes (2xp): Each purchase of this submodule reduces the Alchemical’s
wound penalties by –1 while this Charm is installed.
Social Charms
Authority-Radiating Circlet (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Charisma, Appearance
Adamantine rivets affix a golden diadem to the Alchemical’s brow. When charged with Essence,
it burns like the crown of a mighty king, making defiance of the Alchemical’s will nighunthinkable.
System: Spend 2 Motes. For the rest of the scene, any character who wishes to oppose, insult,
demand something from, or attack the Alchemical must either do so at +2 difficulty, or else
spend a Willpower point to negate the power of this Charm for a turn, or for long enough to issue
her insult, demand, or rebuke (antagonists must lower their Resolve by –1 for the rest of the
story). If this would increase the difficulty of an attack roll above 9, then it must discard one
success.
Conceptual Entropy Module (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Manipulation
In the middle of the Alchemical’s brain there is a steel gland radiating metallic wires, which
connect to pin-like antennae emerging from her skull. By feeding Essence into it and channeling
its power through a few spoken words, the Alchemical can corrode a target’s confidence in the
veracity of his own beliefs.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll Manipulation + Presence against a difficulty of the target’s
Willpower. Success allows the Alchemical to convince the target that one of his beliefs is false.
This confusion lasts for an hour per success. This cannot cause the target to doubt an Intimacy or
to deny his Nature.
Entropic Reinforcement Protocols (1xp): If the targeted belief clashes with one of the
Alchemical’s Intimacies (for example, if the Alchemical degraded a target’s belief that might
makes right, and one of her Intimacies revolved around disgust toward bullies), then Conceptual
Entropy Module’s effects last until the target has spent (successes rolled) days outside of the
Alchemical’s presence. Meeting her again before the Charm’s effects lapse resets this
countdown, even if she’s removed Conceptual Entropy Module from her array in the meantime.
Conceptual Decay Infliction (2xp): The Charm can cast an Intimacy into doubt for its duration if
successful.
Emotive Aesthetics of the Body Electric (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Appearance
Artificial nerves and neurons make the Alchemical’s body capable of hyper-precise movements
calculated to provoke calculated psychological responses. This allows her to communicate even
complex concepts with nothing but a toss of her hair, subtly adjusted eyebrow, shrug, or other bit
of body language.
System: The Alchemical’s player may roll Appearance + Empathy (difficulty 4) to communicate
a message of any degree of complexity silently, through body language alone, and this
communication is only perceptible to those she intends to understand her.
Encoded Communications Protocol (1xp): The Alchemical may deploy this Charm reflexively
even in the midst of normal socialization.
Empathy Simulation Engine (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence
A series of gears adorn the Alchemical’s head, slowly turning when she concentrates deeply.
Their motion stirs a crystalline calculation matrix buried deep in her brain which performs
personality-modeling simulations to calculate the true motives of those around her.
System: The Alchemical needs only hear someone speak a few words or to read something
they’ve written to make an attempt to read their intentions (see p. XX).
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Thought-Attuning Calculations (2xp): After successfully reading someone’s intentions, the
Alchemical may also predictively model their current surface thoughts for the next minute or so.
Hostility Reflection Array (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Charisma, Manipulation
A fine mesh dish is affixed to the back of the Alchemical’s head, by which she may reflect the
imprecations of her opponents back upon them.
System: When slighted, humiliated, or accused of wrongdoing, the Alchemical can reflexively
spend 1 Mote and roll Manipulation + Socialize against the accuser’s resisted Charisma +
Socialize (both difficulty 6). Should the Alchemical gain more successes, then everyone present
becomes convinced the aggressor was in fact the one who belittled, insulted, or implicated
herself.
Motivational Vocoder (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Charisma, Manipulation
A delicate silver torc riveted into the Alchemical’s throat modulates her voice, allowing her to
perfectly pitch and tune her words to maximize their appeal.
System: By spending 1 Mote, the Alchemical reduces the difficulty of all social rolls by –2 for
the rest of the scene.
Optimal Harmonization Tuning (3xp): While the Motivational Vocoder is installed, if the
Alchemical uses Transitory Augmentation of Industrial Endeavor to empower her Charisma,
Manipulation, or Appearance Attributes, then the Transitory Augmentation’s duration becomes
one scene.
Personality Patterning Engrams (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence, Wits
Circuitry imprinted onto the surface of the character’s brain makes certain betrayals literally
unthinkable.
System: Any attempt to cause or force the Alchemical to betray, undermine, or abandon her
Intimacies automatically fails.
Pheromone Regulation System (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Charisma, Manipulation
A set of micro-pumps and artificial glands beneath the Alchemical’s skin allow her to synthesize
and release psychoactive chemicals that provoke certain emotions.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll Manipulation + Empathy against a difficulty of the target’s
Willpower. Their heart is filled with sorrow, fear, anger, despair, joy, apathy, contentment, or
whatever else the Alchemical wishes them to feel for one hour per success. See page XX for the
consequences of powerful emotion.
Instinctual Aversion Formula (1xp): In place of the Charm’s usual effects, the Alchemical may
reflexively pay 1 Mote to release a pheromone cloud that causes all animals to instinctively shy
away and retreat from her presence for the rest of the scene. Supernatural beings wearing animal
forms are unaffected beyond a sense of vague unease, while magical or intelligent animals may
roll Willpower against difficulty 6 to resist the Charm’s effects.
Ecstatic Secretions (2xp): In place of the Charm’s usual effects, the Alchemical may reflexively
pay 1 Mote to release a neuroreactive chemical through her skin that induces bliss in whoever
she comes into contact with for the rest of the scene. That individual raises the difficulty of any
action other than losing himself to waves of euphoria by +2 as long as he remains in skin-to-skin
contact with the Alchemical.
Biochemical Lozenge Concentrator (3xp): In place of the Charm’s usual effects, the Alchemical
may concentrate one of the Charm’s normal functions into the form of a pill, which emerges
from a small iris somewhere on her body. Whoever takes the pill suffers (or enjoys) the full
effects of the Charm as though the Alchemical had rolled (Essence rating) successes (or for her
Essence rating in hours of bliss if the Alchemical encodes Ecstatic Secretions into the pill).
Creating a single pill costs 1 Mote.
Positronic Aegis (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence, Wits
Complex baffles of lead and gold line the inside of the Alchemical’s skull, protecting her
thoughts from external meddling. When in use, an armored ring deploys around her soulgem.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to become immune to all thought and emotion-altering magic
for the rest of the scene.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Precalibrated Noetic Trigger (1xp): Once per story, this Charm may be activated automatically
at no cost.
Terminal Brain Spiders (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence, Manipulation
The Alchemical’s skull and lungs act as launching silos for a fleet of memetic nanomachines
capable of subtly rewiring the behavior and beliefs of those she interacts with, and then using
those people as carriers to spread the Exalt’s messages. When she wants a vicious rumor or
conspiracy theory to circulate, it infallibly does so in very short order.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Manipulation + Socialize against a difficulty of (4 + highest of
the target’s Allies, Backing, Class, Command, Influence, or Resources). While this Charm can’t
ensure that everyone believes whatever terrible rumor the Alchemical wishes to spread, success
does guarantee that within a day or two, everyone who matters has at least heard it.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Thousandfold Courtesan Calculations (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Appearance, Manipulation
Red and green jade relays wound through the Alchemical’s brain lead to orichalcum emitters
beneath her skin. She possesses both an index of efficacious seduction techniques and wired
reflexes which provide her with the perfect blush and posture to excite those she wishes to
attract.
System: Spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, all Appearance rolls are made at –2 difficulty.
Authoritative Pillow-Book Index (3xp): The Alchemical can employ certain nerve-induction
techniques upon an enthusiastic sexual partner that brings about the greatest pleasure of which
their neurology is capable. The exhausted recipient must succeed at a difficulty 9 Willpower roll
or gain a temporary positive Intimacy toward the Alchemical for the rest of the story. If they
already have such an Intimacy, it immediately deepens into a permanent Intimacy.
Universal Appeal Facilitation (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Charisma, Manipulation
The Alchemical reads the microreactions of those around her and adjusts her approach to
perfectly fit their expectations and desires.
System: During the scene when someone first meets the Alchemical, they’re favorably inclined
toward her, and all her social actions against them are rolled at –2 difficulty.
Expectation-Adjusting Recovery (3xp): The Alchemical may reflexively spend 1 Mote to re-roll a
failed social action.
Memory Implantation Probe (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Manipulation
The Alchemical can extend a narrow spike of black iron from a housing mechanism in her hand.
Upon inserting it into a target’s body, the Alchemical may take control of the subject’s mind,
editing his memories to suit her needs.
System: The Alchemical must first insert the spike into her target. If he is restrained or
cooperative, she may do so carefully, inflicting only superficial damage in the same fashion as a
hypodermic needle. If he’s uncooperative, then she must make an attack to plant the spike
properly, sacrificing one success to ensure the spike is inserted properly, and inflict at least one
level of damage. (The spike is a Brawl, Martial Arts, or Melee weapon (Dexterity or Strength,
5L, although only Dexterity can be used for careful insertion.)
Upon inserting the spike, the Alchemical reflexively spends 2 Motes and makes a contested roll
of Manipulation + Presence against the subject’s Willpower (both at difficulty 6). The subject’s
memories can be rewritten based on the number of successes left after subtracting the result of
the opposed Willpower roll:
1 success: The events of a recent scene can be rewritten.
2 successes: The events of a recent day can be rewritten.
3 successes: A single pivotal memory in the subject’s life can be rewritten. Alternately, entire
weeks of the subject’s past can be written so long as they’re not crucial to the substance of her
life or identity.
4 successes: A major feature of the subject’s life can be rewritten (such as who he loves, where
he was born, or whether the Alchemical is a hated enemy or a childhood friend).
5+ successes: The subject can be given an entirely new history.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Memory Implantation Dart (2xp): The Charm may be deployed against a target up to one zone
away, firing the spike as a dart with a Thrown attack. The spike breaks down in the target’s body
over the course of the Charm’s activation and the Alchemical’s body extrudes a replacement.
Personality Override Spike (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Manipulation
The Alchemical can extend a narrow spike of black iron from a housing mechanism in her hand.
Upon inserting it into a target’s body, the Alchemical may take control of the subject’s mind,
rewriting his personality to suit her needs.
System: The Alchemical must first insert the spike into her target. If he is restrained or
cooperative, she may do so carefully, inflicting only superficial damage in the same fashion as a
hypodermic needle. If he’s uncooperative, then she must make an attack to plant the spike
properly, sacrificing one success to ensure the spike is inserted properly, and inflict at least one
level of damage. (The spike is a Brawl, Martial Arts, or Melee weapon (Dexterity or Strength,
5L, although only Dexterity can be used for careful insertion.)
Upon inserting the spike, the Alchemical reflexively spends 3 Motes and makes a contested roll
of Manipulation + Presence against the target’s Willpower (both at difficulty 6). Success
transforms the target into the Alchemical’s loyal servant. The more successes by which the
Alchemical exceeds the subject, the longer the target’s servitude lasts, as per the chart below:
Result Duration
Loss Subject cannot be targeted by this Charm for the rest of the story.
Tie Subject cannot be targeted by this Charm again in the current scene.
1 One hour
2 One day
3 One week
4 One month
5 One year
Each point of Willpower spent to resist this Charm negates one success on the Alchemical’s roll,
and can potentially drive the effect down to a “botch” result. Antagonists can resist by lowering
their Resolve for the rest of the story, with each point the Resolve is lowered counting as a point
of Willpower spent.
If the Alchemical installs this Charm and Memory Implantation Probe in the same array, their
total combined cost becomes 5 dots rather than 7.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Unassailable Ego Lock (3xp): The Alchemical may break her spike off inside the target’s body.
Doing so prevents her from using this Charm again so long as it remains there, but also keeps the
target from spending more than one point of Willpower per story to negate the Charm.
Successfully removing the spike requires either a successful difficulty 8 Intelligence + Medicine
surgical procedure, or else suffering three levels of unsoakable lethal damage as the barbed spike
is brutally ripped free, usually in the same moment that its victim spends Willpower to exert her
will for a moment. Once the spike is free, the Alchemical may extrude a new one. She may also
reflexively cause her spike to dissolve inside of the target’s body, ending this submodule’s
effects and freeing her to use the Charm again.
Rogue Cell Isolation Protocols (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Manipulation, Perception
A pair of polished chrome-and-soulsteel plates surround the Exalt’s eyes and extend just beyond
the sockets, capturing and reflecting the inner desires of those with whom she speaks.
System: Spend 3 Motes and roll Perception + Empathy against a difficulty of the target’s
Willpower. Success reveals the thing the target wants most in all the world and for which he
would betray all he holds dear, whether it’s as simple as the return of an unrequited love or as
daunting as complete control of a nation.
Unconditional Imperative Programming (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Charisma
Iron regulating coils within the Alchemical’s throat may charge her words with Essence, making
them impossible to resist. Those subjected to this Charm are very aware that their will was not
their own after its effects end.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Manipulation + Presence against a difficulty of the target’s
Willpower rating. One or two successes will allow the Alchemical to command her target to do
anything that doesn’t seem tremendously unusual or out of character. With three or four
successes, she can command the target to do anything that doesn’t endanger himself or a loved
one. With five or more successes, the target will risk his life and the lives of others at the Exalt’s
command.
Unconditional Imperative Programming cannot hypnotize a target into harming or killing
himself, compel him into certain death, or force him to betray his Nature.
Stealth and Disguise Charms
Aura-Dampening Component (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Appearance, Intelligence
A series of crystalline ports cross the Exalt’s chest and back, diffusing and containing the roiling
power of her Essence.
System: While this Charm is installed, one round scene the Exalt may spend Motes as though
her anima were flaring when it is not.
Husk-Sculpting Apparatus (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Appearance
This Charm takes the form of hundreds of tiny hooks linked to pistons under key points of the
Exalt’s body, along with a bank of Essence-fueled pigment injectors. When activated, it allows
the Exalt to recalibrate her physical appearance.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll Appearance + Presence (difficulty 6). For each success, the
Alchemical may change one feature about her appearance from the following list:
• Hair length and/or texture (including body hair).
• Hair color.
• Eye color.
• Skin color.
• Apparent age.
• Height.
• Build and weight.
• Facial or bodily features (cheekbone structures, shape of chin, presence or absence of scars,
etc).
• Physical sex. Male, female, and intersexed or sexless forms are all possible, though the
Alchemical remains infertile in all configurations.
This Charm may be used repeatedly to stack up a dramatic number of alterations. Any changes
wrought are permanent unless reverted with further use of the Charm.
Polymorphic Soulgem Disguise (1xp): In addition to the features listed in the main body of the
Charm, the Alchemical may also change the appearance of her soulgem, including making it
appear as that of another Autochthonian class, or may cause it to sink into her forehead and
vanish completely, the better to imitate tunnel folk or Creation-born.
Voice Distortion Field (1xp): A series of taut, adjustable wires threaded through her voicebox
enable the Alchemical to perfectly recreate any voice or sound she has ever heard.
Dynamic Cloaking Module (2xp): The Alchemical reflexively pay 1 Mote to cause her body to
blend into its surroundings, lowering the difficulty of all Stealth actions by –3 for the rest of the
scene.
Identity Duplication Mirror (2xp): The Alchemical may pay 1 Mote to perfectly replicate the
appearance of anyone she has ever seen. This is generally of little use for impersonating anyone
other than another Alchemical unless Polymorphic Soulgem Disguise is also taken. In
conjunction with that, Voice Distortion Field, and possibly Trans-Chosen Emulator or an
Integrated Artifact Transmogrifier, the Alchemical is capable of perfectly undetectable imitation;
her actions may give her away, but her appearance never will.
Trans-Chosen Emulator (2xp): The Alchemical may attune her anima to different wavelengths,
causing it to visually emulate different sorts of anima displays she has witnessed.
Identity Emulation Package (3xp): The Alchemical may “save” identity-configurations to a
dense crystalline memory-recorder affixed to the underside of her Essence reservoir by this
upgrade. By spending 1 Mote, she may reflexively assume a saved appearance configuration.
She can save a number of appearance configurations equal to (1 + her Essence rating). Saving an
appearance or purging an old one both require a turn spent in concentration and 1 Mote.
Integrated Artifact Transmogrifier (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Appearance, Intelligence
The Exalt’s body contains a complex series of artificial flesh patches and similar mechanisms
which allow her to withdraw all outward signs of her Charms into her body, allowing her to
conceal her capabilities from observers.
System: It takes a turn’s concentration and a Willpower roll against difficulty 8 to activate this
Charm. It remains active until the Exalt decides to activate one of her Charms, at which point all
of her Charms reappear unless she spends 1 Willpower, in which case for the rest of the scene
only the deployed Charm becomes visible, and then only until its activation is finished.
Permanently-active Charms remain in effect while hidden.
This Charm ceases to function while the Alchemical’s anima flares.
Automated Suppression Routines (3xp): It no longer costs a point of Willpower to keep Charm
activation from ending the Charm.
Upgraded Suppression Routines (3xp): Flaring the Alchemical’s anima no longer ends the
Charm.
Optical Shroud (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Appearance, Dexterity, Wits
A lattice of sand-sized crystals dusted across the Alchemical’s flesh causes her to glow and
gleam under direct lighting. By charging this lattice with Essence, she can bend light around
herself and vanish from sight.
System: Spending 1 Mote renders the Exalt invisible for the rest of the scene. See page XX for
the effects of invisibility.
Analytic and Cognitive Charms
Abstract Abacus Implant (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence
A series of silvery nodules adorn the Alchemical’s brow: secondary cognitive engines, which
greatly boost her analytical acumen.
System: Gain 1 Limit to lower the difficulty of all Intelligence rolls by –2 for the rest of the
scene.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Anticipatory Simulation Processor (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence, Perception
A small node buried deep within the Alchemical’s brain runs constant precognitive modeling
algorithms to anticipate future danger, allowing the Chosen to smoothly avoid ambushes.
System: The Alchemical may reflexively spend 1 Mote or 1 Limit to automatically notice an
unexpected attack, allowing her to defend against it as normal.
Predictive Homicide Algorithm (1xp): After using this Charm to anticipate an unexpected attack
from a specific source, the Alchemical cannot suffer any further surprise attacks from that same
source for the rest of the current story.
Imprinted Data Cluster (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence
The Alchemical has a set of ornate polyhedral memory crystals implanted in the frontal lobe of
her brain, storing specialized practical skill software.
System: Each time the Alchemical reloads this Charm into her array, she may assign herself
three bonus Ability dots wherever she likes.
The Exalt gains 2 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Interpolative Syntax Emulator (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence
Artificial synapse webs installed in the Alchemical’s brain act as a universal translator when
charged with Essence.
System: Spending 1 Mote enables the Exalt to understand any language she hears spoken for the
rest of the scene. After a minute or so of hearing a language, the Charm’s adaptive memory
builds a sufficient vocabulary database to allow her to speak the language as well.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Mobile Sensory Drone (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Perception
The Alchemical may remove one of her eyes, which goes skittering off on a tiny nest of hair-thin
metallic legs which normally replace the optical nerve.
If the Exalt has Optical Enhancement installed, all of its benefits can be granted to the eye drone.
System: Spend a turn extracting the eye and setting it loose to roam. The Exalt can see whatever
her roaming eye sees. She can remain active while sharing the eye’s senses, but raises the
difficulty of all actions by +1 due to distraction. A single level of damage destroys the eye,
which must be replaced at the vats.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Broadcast Grille (1xp): The drone can broadcast the Alchemical’s words out loud.
Extra Drones (1xp): Each purchase of his submodule allows the Alchemical to remove another
of her eyes and send it off remotely. Submodule installations in excess of the Exalt’s normal
compliment of eyes can be mounted anywhere on the body, and appear as small metallic rivets
rather than organic eyes. Unless she purchases the Autonomous submodule, the Exalt can only
focus on or actively operate one eye at a time.
Hover Mode (1xp): The drone’s legs can flatten out and rotate at high speed, enabling it to fly
like a tiny helicopter.
Autonomous (2xp): The drone has Intelligence 2 and can be encoded with instructions on what to
seek out and how to generally pursue its given objectives. In other words, it doesn’t need the
Alchemical to micro-manage it, and will ping her when it has found something worth watching
according to its given instructions.
Playback (2xp): The eye records everything it sees in a crystalline memory chip and uploads
these memories to the Alchemical’s mind upon re-integration, allowing her to safely ignore its
input stream without fear of missing anything important. The eye can also physically interface
with Municipal Charms designed to display memory-records.
Optical Enhancement (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Perception
The Alchemical has artificial vision enhancement, which might appear as a visor affixed across
her face, two chrome balls replacing her eyes, or in various other configurations.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to evoke one of the following effects:
• For the rest of the scene, the difficulty of all sight-based Perception rolls drops by –3.
• For the rest of the scene, the Alchemical can see perfectly in the dark.
• For the rest of the scene, the Alchemical’s eyes are capable of acting as high-powered
binoculars.
• For the rest of the scene, the Alchemical can zoom-in on details to the microscopic level.
• For the rest of the scene, the Alchemical can see through walls and other surfaces by
concentrating and rolling Perception + Awareness (difficulty 6) to focus in properly.
Optical Optimization (1xp): Each purchase of this submodule allows the Alchemical to bring one
of her enhancements online without spending Motes by simply spending a turn in concentration.
Deception-Recognition Module (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Perception
The Exalt possesses a pair of metal nodules in front of each ear, just above the jawbone, attuned
to respond to the stress-patterns of deceit.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to interrogate a statement made to the Exalt. If the speaker is
intentionally attempting to speak falsehood, the Alchemical hears a terrible shriek of discordant
feedback.
Utility Charms
Chemical Assassination Index (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence, Stamina
Two slim crystalline reservoirs are located at the small of the character’s back, flanking her
spine. Each is connected to a complex miniature refinery located where her liver ought to be. The
refinery distills the toxins stored in the two reservoirs and distributes them throughout the
Alchemical’s body, making her incredibly poisonous. She can also secrete poison from hidden
taps throughout her body.
System: Anyone who bites into the Alchemical or drinks her blood must soak three levels of
lethal damage thanks to the poisonous chemicals suffusing her entire body. She may also
reflexively spend 1 Mote to emit one dose of poison through one of a variety of means: dripping
it from her fingertip into a drink; delivering it with a kiss; or through yet more intimate contact.
Each dose of poison inflicts three levels of lethal damage.
Paralytic Toxin (2xp): Rather than extruding a deadly poison, the Alchemical may deploy a
paralytic neurotoxin that temporarily incapacitates the enemy. A target dosed with this poison
suffers a –3 penalty to all actions. Mortals subjected to the poison must make a Stamina +
Resistance roll against difficulty 9 or else be paralyzed entirely for the next (Essence rating)
hours.
Acid (3xp): Rather than extruding poison, the Alchemical may deploy a potent acid that quickly
burns through any substance it is dripped or smeared upon. One dose is generally sufficient to
burn a man-sized hole in a stone wall or metal bulkhead, though smaller and more strategic doses
can be issued. If an enemy is exposed to this acid, they suffer three levels of aggravated rather
than lethal damage.
Deadly Injector Unit (3xp): The Alchemical may deploy needles from her palms to inject her
poisons (doing so in combat requires a successful unarmed attack), or deliver them through any
of her weapon Charms that pierce or cut her opponents such as her Integrated Arsenal System,
Iron Maiden Implants, or Hyperdextrous Tentacle Apparatus with proper upgrades.
Hallucinogen (3xp): Rather than extruding a deadly poison, the Alchemical may deploy a potent
hallucinogen that distracts and disorients the target, subjecting them to waves of
phantasmagorical euphoria. The difficulty of all actions undertaken for the rest of the scene
increase by +1; the target may spend a point of Willpower to focus through the distractions and
negate this penalty for a turn.
Environmental Regulatory Implants (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina
Transparent crystalline membranes can flick into place to seal the Alchemical’s eyes, ears,
mucous membranes, and airways off from the outside environment. A boxy unit mounted on her
chest connects to all of her major organs and regulates her body temperature, and can even
neutralize hostile Essence radiation. In short, she’s capable of surviving nearly any sort of hostile
environment.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the next 25 hours, the Alchemical is immune to
environmental damage from extreme temperatures, pressure, radiation, and deadly hostile
atmospheres. She can survive in any of the extreme environments of the Great Maker’s body,
even the deadly Poles of Steam or Lightning.
Fluidic Impeller Drive (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity
Retractable jet modules, fins, and propeller housings slide out of compartments on various parts
of the Alchemical’s body when this Charm is activated. While powered, the device sucks liquids
through intake valves and pumps it out of thrust nozzles at high velocity to aid in swimming.
System: Swimming is no longer a form of complex movement. The Alchemical is as buoyant as
she wants to be in any liquid, and can survive the crushing pressure of immersion in the Pole of
Oil or deep sea trenches.
Omnitool Implant (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity, Intelligence
The Alchemical’s hands are replaced by incredibly complex transforming machinery which can
unfold and reconfigure into any manner of tool imaginable, from scalpels to hammers to
lockpicks.
System: The Alchemical is always assumed to have any manner of work tool necessary while
this Charm is installed.
Paramagnetic Tether Beam (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Dexterity, Strength, Wits
Coils of Essence-conducting wire entwine the Exalt’s fingers on both hands, just beneath the
skin. When fueled with Essence, the Charm generates a shaped field of semi-palpable force
visible as a faint distortion in the air.
System: After a moment spent in concentration, the Exalt spends 1 Mote and rolls her Wits +
Athletics against difficulty 6. This Charm remains active for the rest of the scene, and allows her
to telekinetically lift and move objects within two zones by gesturing at them. If she tries to
wrest an object away from another character, or perform fine manipulations, her successes form
her dice pool to do so. Otherwise, her successes on the activation roll determine her capacity to
lift and move objects:
Successes Maximum Weight
One About a pound
Two About the weight of a child
Three About the weight of a large man
Four About a quarter-ton
Five About a half-ton
Six+ About a ton
With 3+ successes, the Alchemical can swing herself about by anchoring the Paramagnetic
Tether Beam and pulling herself from place to place, or may attempt to fling other characters
into an adjacent zone. To do so, roll her Paramagnetic Tether Beam dice pool against their
reflexive Strength + Athletics roll to break free. If the Alchemical gains more successes, she may
move them up to one zone and knock them prone if desired. Alternately, this can be used to help
move consenting targets around hazardous terrain, in which case there’s no need for a roll.
Forked Beam Splitter (1xp): The Alchemical may manipulate two objects simultaneously,
though she can only actively move one of them at a time.
Recursive Force Suspension (1xp): The Alchemical may spend 1 Willpower to “lock” an object
she has lifted with Paramagnetic Tether Beam in place, leaving it suspended in a shimmering
field of Essence without the need of any further attention. The object remains there for (Essence
rating) days, until the Alchemical wills it to fall, or until it is physically dragged out of place by
someone or something. This can’t be used against animate targets.
Sustenance Optimization Engine (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Stamina
A metallic jaw and cast-iron furnace in place of a stomach permit the Alchemical to sustain
herself on anything she can fit into her mouth: rocks, dirt, old cans and bits of scrap metal, all are
equally digestible.
System: This Charm is always active.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Void Survival Engine (1xp): The Exalt may spend 1 Mote to meet all of her nutritional needs for
25 hours, powering her body through divine energy alone.
Sustenance Replication Shunt (1xp): By spending 1 Mote, the Exalt may extrude a bland but
filling nutrient paste, capable of completely nourishing up to twice her Essence rating in
individuals for a day.
Synaptic Acceleration Node (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence, Strength, Stamina
Relay crystals implanted throughout the Exalt’s body vastly optimize her ability to perform
predictable or repetitive actions, such as most any form of standard labor.
System: The Exalt can work five times faster than normal when creating, modifying, or repairing
something, when providing medical care, or when organizing, cleaning, moving furniture —
most any sort of work, generally. This doesn’t apply to combat, nor to travel; the Exalt’s
movements are optimized, not sped-up.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Tactical Leadership Engrams (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Charisma
A series of orichalcum studs adorning the character’s face in an arc lead to moonsilver spikes
piercing her brain, allowing her to translate tactical acumen to instantly appropriate and inspiring
action during crisis moments on the battlefield.
System: Spend 1 Mote to make a reflexive rally action after an allied group has failed a rout
check. This Charm can be used at no cost a number of times per story equal to the Alchemical’s
War rating.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Regenerative Essence Transfusion (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Intelligence
The Alchemical possesses a series of slender tentacles concealed within compartments on
various parts of her body. Each is tipped with a long, hollow hypodermic needle, and capable of
injecting a different sort of revivifying Essence, the better to treat a patient’s injuries.
System: After a mere scene of regulating her patient’s Essence with injections, the Alchemical
may spend 1 Mote and roll Intelligence + Medicine against difficulty 6. Her patient heals one
lethal or two bashing damage per success, or one aggravated damage per two successes.
Stimulant (1xp): Rather than performing a medical treatment, the Exalt may trigger this Charm to
inject her patient with a powerful stimulant, negating all fatigue penalties and removing the need
to sleep for 25 hours. The Alchemical may also dose herself if she wishes. If a patient (or the
Exalt) is kept going via this submodule for more days than their Stamina rating, then when the
Charm finally lapses they suffer one level of unsoakable bashing damage for each day they are in
arrears on rest and sleep.
Antivenin (2xp): Rather than performing a medical treatment, the Exalt may trigger this Charm to
inject her patient with a universal antivenin, immediately neutralizing the effect of any poison in
his system. If the patient suffered damage from poison during the current or prior turn, they may
roll a number of dice equal to the damage taken against difficulty 6; each success erases one
point of poison damage. The Alchemical may also dose herself if she wishes.
Anesthetic (3xp): Rather than performing a medical treatment, the Exalt may trigger this Charm
to inject her patient with an anesthetic serum, allowing him to ignore up to three points of wound
penalties for the rest of the scene. The Alchemical may also dose herself if she wishes.
Transcendent Brutality Motivator (•)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Manipulation
The Alchemical’s hand is replaced with a terrible soulsteel prosthetic which can extend an array
of nerve-induction hooks at will. This Charm is a tool of torture, of will-breaking, and of
motivation by the most desperate of means.
System: The Alchemical may reflexively extend this Charm’s hooks whenever she chooses. If
physically touching a target with this Charm, she may raise or lower his wound penalties through
nerve induction to whatever extent she pleases, at a rate of +1 or –1 per turn. The target’s
penalties return to normal on the turn following the Alchemical breaking contact.
The Alchemical may break off several of her nerve induction hooks inside of a victim’s body,
either with an unarmed attack or by simply yanking her hand away from a target after forceful or
casual contact. She may spend 1 Mote per scene to activate the hooks as though she were
touching the target, raising or lowering his pain threshold as she desires. Removing the hooks
requires exploratory surgery, as they burrow deep to evade removal (Intelligence + Medicine,
difficulty 9, two levels of unsoakable lethal damage inflicted per attempt). Alternately, a
character can attempt to pull them out as soon as they’re embedded with a Wits + Athletics roll
against difficulty 7.
Unarmed attacks made with the hand replaced by this Charm can inflict lethal damage if the
Alchemical wishes.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
Remote Interrogation Method (2xp): The Alchemical may remotely make demands of someone
she is tormenting with her hooks, though since this Charm doesn’t give her the ability to receive
responses, this is usually an inducement for the target to return to her and turn himself in to make
the pain stop.
Sustained Agony Lock (3xp): The Alchemical may pay 1 Mote to simply set a set of remotelyimplanted hooks to a particular setting and leave them there. This can only increase, not
decrease, a target’s wound penalties. If set to “maximum,” then all of the target’s actions are
reduced to one die through the haze of ceaseless, blinding agony, but enacting this setting
requires 2 Motes. Rather than lasting for a scene, this submodule causes the pain to last until the
Alchemical reflexively decides to make it stop.
Will-Breaking Algorithm (3xp): Often employed in tandem with Sustained Agony Lock to break
a victim, this submodule introduces a deceptive weakness to remotely-set hooks: the victim may
pay 1 Willpower to shut out the pain for one scene. Alchemical interrogators use this submodule
and a day or so of patience to reduce their victims’ will to nothing before resuming serious
interrogations.
Spiritual Charms
Cross-Phase Scanner (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence, Perception
Colored glass domes cover the Exalt’s eyes and adamant receptor-nodules dot her skull, allowing
her to attune her vision and her subtler senses to the deeper movements of Essence through the
world around her.
System: The Alchemical can roll Perception + Occult against difficulty 7 to survey the Essence
of the world around her. Depending on the number of successes rolled and the presence of
anything interesting to detect, she might uncover things like the radiance of a nearby Manse or
Demesne, a subtle but active spell or sorcerous working, or the fact that a ferocious amount of
Essence was spent in the area sometime recently. She can also discern particular profiles, flavors,
or “colors” of Essence if she has encountered them before, and thus might use this Charm to
track a missing Circlemate by the trail of his expended Essence. This Charm is frequently used to
estimate the contents of unmarked veins in the Reaches before tapping into them.
Multiphase Divinity Regulator (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence, Perception
This Charm takes the form of a magnetically-bonded coat of mixed jade and meteoric iron filings
embedded in technomystical patterns throughout the Exalt’s skin. When charged with Essence,
they burn with rainbow light and enable her to strike the intangible.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, the Alchemical may perceive and
physically interact with dematerialized beings.
Thermionic Orthodoxy Array (•)
Type: Standard; Resonance: Intelligence, Stamina
An array of glowing vacuum tubes slide out of ports in the Alchemical’s back and shoulders
when she activates this Charm, radiating a field of absolute reality to protect her.
System: Whenever the character is the subject of any supernatural power that seeks to transform,
infect, taint, transport, or control her body, spirit, or destiny, she may reflexively spend 1 Mote
and roll Wits + Occult against difficulty 7. Success shatters the hostile magic, protecting the
Alchemical completely, and immunizes her against repeated attempts to exert the same sort of
influence for the rest of the scene.
Stability-Conferring Aura (3xp): While the Exalt’s anima is flaring, she may activate this Charm
on behalf of anyone in the same zone.
Void-Denying Stability (3xp): The Exalt may pay 1 Mote to activate this Charm for 25 hours,
granting her immunity to the transformative touch of the Wyld. Activating this submodule again
immediately upon its lapse cumulatively increases its cost by 1 Mote.
Man-Machine Weaving Engine (•••)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Intelligence
This Charm takes the form of a thin adamant ring implanted around the Exalt’s soulgem,
inscribed with hundreds of hair-fine glyphs in Old Realm. When activated, the ring spins in its
socket and its glyphs burn with power.
The Alchemical attains initiation into the practice of sorcery through the Weaving Protocols of
Autochthon. She can cast Terrestrial Circle spells and enact sorcerous workings. Purchase of this
Charm grants one shaping ritual and one Terrestrial Circle spell.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer, with further notes on Alchemical
practice of sorcery beginning on page XX. Once this Charm is installed, it can never be
removed.
The Exalt gains 1 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
God-Machine Weaving Engine (•••)
Type: Superior; Resonance: Intelligence
This Charm takes the form of a second adamant ring surrounding that of the Man-Machine
Weaving Engine. When activated, it spins in the opposite direction, throwing off pulsing coronas
of power.
The Alchemical has been initiated into the mighty workings of the Celestial Circle of sorcery,
again through the Weaving Protocols of Autochthon. She can cast Celestial Circle spells.
Purchase of this Charm grants one shaping ritual and one Celestial Circle spell.
This Charm cannot be purchased unless the character already has a Man-Machine Weaving
Engine.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer, with further notes on Alchemical
practice of sorcery beginning on page XX. Once this Charm is installed, it can never be
removed.
The Exalt gains 2 permanent Limit while this Charm is installed.
An Alchemical must have Essence 3+ to purchase this Charm.