Basic Charms
Excellence of the Bitter Heart: (Ability) (•)
The Heart-Eater sharpens her Essence and aligns it with her actions, allowing her to cut the 
world into the shape she desires by effort and will.
System: Select any single Ability when purchasing this Charm. At any time, the player may 
reflexively spend 1 Mote to add the Ability rating in dice to all rolls using this Ability for 
(Essence rating + 1) turns in combat, or minutes outside of combat. If inside her Awakened 
Essence Lair, the Exalt instead adds (Ability + Essence) dice.
This Charm can be repurchased to unlock additional Abilities, but Essence must be spent to add 
dice to each Ability separately. Heart-Eaters begin play with all versions of Excellence of the 
Bitter Heart which correspond to their Eldritch and Favored Abilities.
Anima Twining Charms
Adaptive Coloration Halo (•)
The Heart-Eater’s anima attunes itself to the Essence of those around her, taking on the 
characteristics of another supernatural being.
System: While twined with another Exalt, the Heart-Eater may choose to mask her anima banner 
by making it appear identical that Exalt’s anima display (and, if applicable, duplicating their 
caste mark or aspect markings).
Anima Braiding Method (•)
Reaching out to two allies, the Heart-Eater deftly twists their Essences together, allowing them to 
share power with one another.
System: The Heart-Eater may touch two other consenting Exalts, spend a turn in concentration, 
and twine their animas together. Each enjoys not only his normal anima power, but also the 
anima power of the Exalt to whom he’s been twined. This twining lasts for the rest of the scene, 
or until they move more than one zone away from one another, whichever comes first. This 
Charm may also be used to share a consenting Exalt’s anima power with a non-Exalted ally, but 
this costs 1 Mote.
Any Charms which upgrade the Heart-Eater’s anima twining capabilities also upgrade Anima 
Braiding Method. For example, Memories of Other Heavens will allow the braided pair to 
continue to benefit when in different buildings, and Manifold Anima Splendor will permit the 
braiding of larger groups.
Endurant Bonds of the Heart (•)
The Heart-Eater learns to keep a sliver of borrowed Essence locked deep within herself, greatly 
extending the duration of anima twining.
System: The duration of anima twining is now (Essence rating) days, so long as the subject 
remains within a mile of the Heart-Eater (and even that distance limitation can be ignored if she 
also knows Memories of Other Skies). If the Heart-Eater has an Intimacy for the Exalt she’s 
twined with, she can maintain the twining until she voluntarily decides to relinquish it.
Light-Snuffing Gesture (•)
The Heart-Eater’s anima subtly influences the world around her, muffling and strangling the 
power of those she believes mean her ill.
System: When she takes her turn each round, the Heart-Eater may reflexively select one enemy 
she can perceive who hasn’t taken their turn yet. For the rest of the turn, that target’s anima 
power is disabled. This also disables Dragon-Blooded anima flux.
Memories of Other Heavens (•)
The Heart-Eater learns to weave foreign bits of power deep into the cycling of her own Essence, 
allowing her to “grab and go” when anima twining.
System: The Heart-Eater continues to enjoy the benefits of anima twining even once her subject 
is no longer within one zone of her, up to whatever her usual duration is for twining (by default, 
one scene).
Stolen Skies Attitude (•)
With but a moment’s concentration and an occult gesture, the Heart-Eater may forcibly entangle 
an unwilling target’s anima with her own.
System: The Heart-Eater may anima twine with unwilling or unaware targets. If the target 
doesn’t consent to the twining, the Heart-Eater may make an opposed roll of Charisma + 
Empathy against the target’s Willpower (both at difficulty 6). If she gains more successes, the 
Heart-Eater initiates anima twining whether the subject wants her to or not. If the target isn’t 
aware she’s trying to twine with him (as is generally the case when neither of their banners are 
manifested), then she is automatically successful without the need for a roll.
Aurora-Limned Omens (••)
When the Heart-Eater anima twines with another Exalt, she momentarily catches a glimpse of 
the darkest recesses of his most hidden heart.
System: Upon anima twining with someone, the Heart-Eater may make a reflexive, contested 
roll of Perception + Empathy against the target’s Willpower (both at difficulty 6). Gaining more 
successes allows her to learn the target’s darkest secret: whatever fact or knowledge the other 
Exalt most wants to keep hidden from the world at large.
Essence-Sharing Link (••)
Through the refinements of this Charm, the Heart-Eater and her twining-mates may access one 
another’s Essence.
System: Any characters joined together through the auspices of the Heart-Eater’s anima twining 
may spend Motes from one another’s pools whenever they please, so long as they’re within the 
same zone. This does not require consent and cannot be refused or blocked so long as the twining 
remains active. Essence-Sharing Link can’t draw Motes from the pool of an Anima-Trimming 
Memento.
Assume that antagonist Exalts have a number of available Motes equal to twice their Essence 
rating. If they are hard-pressed, they may take Motes from the Heart-Eater in return, even though 
antagonists do not themselves have or track Motes, because that lack is a narrative abstraction to 
make them easier for Storytellers to manage; within the fiction of the story, they are still 
spending Essence to power their endeavors.
Manifold Anima Splendor (••)
Ascending to mastery of her craft, the Heart-Eater may twine together multiple strands of anima 
at once.
System: The Heart-Eater may simultaneously benefit from anima twining with (Essence rating + 
1) Exalts. This upgrade also applies to Anima Braiding Method, allowing her to link groups of 
Exalts together, or extend an Exalt’s anima benefits to a group of un-Exalted allies (at a cost of 1 
Mote per ally).
Unwitting Bodyguard Assignment (••)
The Heart-Eater deflects an attack with the shimmering curtain of her anima, passing its 
consequences to someone she’s twined with.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote when targeted by an attack to re-assign one of the HeartEater’s twining partners as its target. This ends the twining. Unwitting Bodyguard Assistant can’t 
shunt attacks to a partner that isn’t in the same zone.
Anima-Trimming Memento (•••)
The Heart-Eater learns to snip off a bright contrail of power from an anima banner she has 
twined with, tucking it away into the depths of her bitter heart to revisit in later days.
System: The Heart-Eater may spend 1 Mote to “memorize” someone’s anima. At any time 
henceforth, she can twine from that memory as though that person were present. The Heart-Eater 
can “remember” a number of different anima powers equal to (1 + her Essence rating). If she 
wishes to memorize a new twining partner while at her limit, she must choose to forget an old 
memory first.
A memorized partner can be used for any anima twining function, including counting as “a 
consenting Exalt” for Anima-Braiding Method.
Iron Orchid Halo (•••)
While twining with another Exalt, the Heart-Eater may shelter herself behind their front-line 
battle might.
System: The Heart-Eater may reflexively spend 1 Mote to bend the currents of aggression 
toward a twining partner within the same zone. The chosen partner may reflexively protect the 
Heart-Eater (see p. XX) so long as they remain in the same zone and twined. If he refuses to 
accept this Charm’s effects and opts not to protect the Heart-Eater, he is placed on the Litany of 
Grudges and the Heart-Eater gains 2 Limit.
Combat Charms
Blameless Victim Posture (•)
Regardless of the truth of the matter, the Heart-Eater twists the perceptions of those around her 
so that when violence breaks out, she appears to be the victim of unwarranted aggression. Even 
those who arrived to fight a duel with her may find themselves confused at why they are 
needlessly attacking the Exalt once the first attack is made.
System: At the very beginning of an exchange of violence, the Heart-Eater may reflexively pay 
1 Mote and make a Manipulation + Socialize roll against difficulty 4. Anyone witnessing the 
conflict whose Perception is lower than the successes she rolled believes that those fighting the 
Heart-Eater started the fight, and did so without justifiable provocation. Even the Heart-Eater’s 
opponents themselves may be affected by Blameless Victim Posture.
Essence-Envenoming Feit (•)
Everyone has secrets, things they keep bottled up on the inside. With but a touch, the Heart-Eater 
may twist a target’s inner repressions and shames into a literal poison that eats him from the 
inside-out.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote upon touching or striking the target. He must soak one level 
of automatic lethal damage each turn for a number of turns equal to the Heart-Eater’s 
Appearance rating, while suffering a –2 penalty to all dice pools due to the excruciating pain of 
the venom coursing through his body.
The Heart-Eater must know some secret about the target that he does not wish to become public 
knowledge, or else Essence-Envenoming Feit cannot catalyze.
Hateful Bloody Expulsion (•)
The Heart-Eater dredges up all the rancor she possesses and casts it forth by spitting a streamer 
of boiling, poisonous blood at her enemies.
System: Roll Dexterity + Presence to aim the attack. The bloody streamer has a base damage of 
7L and can target enemies up to one zone away. Each expulsion inflicts one level of unsoakable 
lethal damage to the Heart-Eater. If the target is on the Exalt’s Litany of Grudges, then the 
attack’s damage is aggravated.
Tender Killing Embrace (•)
The Heart-Eater’s grasp is inescapable as iron and — at least to observers — tender as a lovers’ 
reunion. By the use of this Charm, she may strike down her enemies in broad daylight with none 
the wiser.
System: The Heart-Eater locks herself in a deadly embrace with an opponent, immobilizing 
savaging him. By reflexively paying 1 Mote upon landing a successful unarmed attack, the Exalt 
locks herself and her target in place. Unless she voluntarily relinquishes the power of this Charm, 
neither can move from the zone they currently occupy until the Heart-Eater has taken another 
(Essence rating) turns. The initial attack inflicts lethal damage with a bonus to its base damage 
equal to the Heart-Eater’s Essence rating, as do all subsequent unarmed attacks during the 
duration of Tender Killing Embrace. 
Attacking anyone other than her grappled target immediately ends Tender Killing Embrace. Each 
time the Heart-Eater is struck by an attack, the duration of Tender Killing Embrace is cut short 
by one round.
Observers to misinterpret her aggressions as friendly or romantic overtures: she seems to be 
throwing herself upon a paramour from whom she has been long parted, roughhousing with an 
old friend, or swept up in a loving embrace, rather than engaged in the act of murder. They will 
even misinterpret her victim’s screams for help as jokes or cries of ardor. This illusion breaks 
immediately if the victim escapes from her grapple.
Torn Flower Revelation (•)
Upon confounding an attacker, the Heart-Eater strikes back with a blade of concentrated appeal, 
slicing open her opponent’s perceptions and forcing him to see her in a positive and desirable 
light.
System: After being the target of an attack that fails to strike her, the Heart-Eater may 
reflexively pay 1 Mote. Her attacker must then make a reflexive Wits + Socialize roll against 
difficulty 9. Failure causes him to, in a moment’s startled clarity, re-evaluate the Heart-Eater’s 
worth and meaning to him. He is forced to gain a positive temporary Intimacy of some kind 
toward her, with a context decided by the target’s player, which might be anything from 
admiration for a worthy foe to confused love. This temporary Intimacy lasts until the end of the 
current story.
Vicious Wounding Gesture (•)
Upon wounding any of her adversaries, the Heart-Eater may clench her fist, sending a convulsive 
surge of Essence through the injury and causing it to rupture in a spray of blood.
System: After successfully inflicting damage on an opponent, reflexively spend 1 Mote and roll 
a number of dice equal to the post-soak damage inflicted (difficulty 5). The resulting successes 
must then be soaked as further damage of the same type.
Walking on Light (•)
The Heart-Eater’s footsteps strike motes of radiant luminance from the ground, clearing a path 
before her wherever she wishes to go.
System: If an attack directed against the Heart-Eater before her turn fails to strike her, it does not 
prevent her from reflexively moving to another zone that round. She may also do so even if an 
attack against her does succeed (Essence rating) times per battle.
Bones of Pearl and Jade (••)
The Heart-Eater’s Essence fortifies her body against injury, granting her flesh a measure of the 
same inviolability as that which her Exaltation has imbued into the bones beneath.
System: Reflexively spending 1 Mote allows the Heart-Eater to change her soak calculation to 
(Stamina + Appearance + armor’s Soak value) for the rest of the scene.
Death-Evading Glissade (••)
The Heart-Eater senses the greatest point of tranquility in the storm of battle and moves to be 
there, narrowly avoiding her foes’ aggressions.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For the next (Appearance rating) 
rounds, all attacks directed at the Heart-Eater must discard one rolled success, and all attacks by 
antagonists must roll one more success than they otherwise would before adding a point to the 
attack’s damage (usually meaning that attacks must roll three successes per point of damage 
added). Finally, all group attacks directed at the Exalt while this Charm is active do not add Size 
to their Expertise pool or base damage.
Paranoid Frenzy Eruption (••)
When the Heart-Eater’s suspicion that the world is out to get her finally bears fruit, all of the 
violent readiness she has stored up within bursts out in a shocking torrent, helping her get the 
drop on her enemies.
System: The Heart-Eater may reflexively spend 1 Mote to cut ahead and attack before any of her 
opponents for the next (Appearance rating) rounds.
Thousandfold Ribbons of Light (••)
The Heart-Eater solidifies strands of her anima into gorgeous ribbons of coherent light, nimble as 
the wind and sharp enough to split worlds.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, the Heart-Eater may lash out with 
her ribbons against targets up to one zone away, making Brawl, Martial Arts, or Melee-based 
attacks which inflict a base damage of 6L. This damage is aggravated against anyone on her 
Litany of Grudges.
Unbridled Gala Aggression (••)
The Heart-Eater may cast an illusion of peaceful elegance over the most furious carnage and 
bloodshed. She may conceal a raging battle with a group of Dragon-Blooded as a ballroom dance 
or a murderous pursuit as a good-natured footrace; only the participants see through to the truth.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to entangle a scene of violence in a concealing shroud of 
Essence that weaves it into the normal goings-on of the world. Those not involved cannot 
perceive the battle as anything alarming unless they suffer a direct injury from it. Essence-users
can make a Perception + Awareness roll against difficulty 8 to see through the illusion if one of 
their interests or allies is directly threatened, but are otherwise as blinded as the mortals around 
them.
Bright Claw (•••)
The Heart-Eater concentrates her anima around one hand until it becomes a luminescent, deadly 
claw, then lashes out at her enemy’s heart.
System: Spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower and make an unarmed attack. This attack inflicts 
aggravated damage. If the target harbors strong positive feelings toward the Heart-Eater, the 
attack’s base damage is 9A, and it is unblockable; antagonists reduce their Defense by –2. 
Denying the truth of her betrayal is still effective, and so dodging isn’t penalized, but attempting 
to dodge (or, for an antagonist, deciding not to suffer the –2 Defense penalty) also prevents the 
attempted murder from negatively impacting the target’s feelings toward the Exalt. If the Exalt 
kills a target with this Charm, she does so by ripping his heart out of his chest. If she chooses to 
spend a turn eating the heart, she heals a number of levels of damage equal to the deceased’s 
Essence rating.
Heart-Eaters and Black Claw Style
Canny observers may notice some unsettling similarities between the battle-arts of 
the Heart-Eaters and Black Claw Style. It’s difficult to say whether this raises more
uncomfortable questions about the true origins of that sinister Martial Arts style, or 
about the nature of the Heart-Eaters’ ancient act of treachery.
Flower Storm Tyrant (•••)
For a moment, the Heart-Eater splits into a prismatic flurry of deadly blows and graceful slashes, 
enshrouded in the fog of her anima. When she resolves back into herself, she does so alone 
among the corpses.
System: Reflexively spend 2 Motes, 1 Willpower. The Heart-Eater may take a second turn after 
all other characters have acted, which must be used to launch an attack at a target of her choice. 
She may not move on this turn. Anyone who attacks her in the space between her first turn and 
her second automatically becomes a target of the second attack, in addition to her originallychosen target; roll a single attack against the highest Defense of any target involved.
Alternately, spend 1 Mote and use the Heart-Eater’s turn to launch an attack against a battle 
group. If successful, it adds (higher of Performance or Presence) successes to its damage roll.
Heart With Teeth (•••)
Matching the beat of her heart to that of someone trying to kill her, the Exalt falls into a rhythm 
of perfectly matched violence, gracefully avoiding every killing blow and maneuvering herself 
into the perfect position for a lethal response.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote and 1 Willpower to activate this Charm. For the next 
(Appearance rating) rounds, the Heart-Eater’s Dodge value may be calculated as (5 + higher of 
Empathy or Socialize). If this would raise her Defense above 9, her attackers are forced to 
discard one success from their attacks. Additionally, each result of 1 rolled on attacks against her 
subtracts one from that attack’s base damage while this Charm is active.
If the Heart-Eater successfully dodges an attack while using this Charm, then her next attack 
against that opponent during the current scene is made at –1 difficulty.
Roses of the Battlefield (•••)
Shedding Essence along with her blood, the Heart-Eater brings forth a field of gorgeous flowers 
in a multitude of soft pastel shades. Those who stand against her may either lay down their arms 
in the face of beauty… or be destroyed by it.
System: Upon suffering lethal or aggravated damage from any source, the Heart-Eater may 
reflexively spend 1 Mote. Wherever her blood falls, multitudes of beautiful flowers immediately 
spring forth, softly glowing in all the hues of the boreal lights. For the rest of the scene, anyone 
who targets the Heart-Eater with an attack immediately provokes a storm of petals to rise up 
from the flowers and whirl about him. These petals are razor-edged, forcing the aggressor to 
soak the Heart-Eater’s Essence rating in levels of lethal damage. The flowers exhaust their 
retributive strength after delivering a number of counterattacks equal to the Exalt’s Performance 
rating (minimum 1), at which point the Charm deactivates.
The Heart-Eater may have only one instance of Roses of the Battlefield active at a time, but after 
the Charm ends, it can be reactivated during the same scene. This requires that she receive a 
fresh injury to trigger it, however.
Thousand Petals Evasion (•••)
In the moment before an attack would strike her, the Heart-Eater erupts momentarily into 
thousands of multihued petals, allowing the blow to pass harmlessly through her.
System: Once per scene, when faced with an attack or similar form of danger, the Exalt may 
declare that she perfectly dodges it. The attack fails to strike her without any further dice rolls. 
This defense cannot be invoked against unexpected attacks.
The Heart-Eater may reset the limitation of this Charm and make it available again by devouring
someone’s heart with Bright Claw.
Hardship-Overcoming Charms
Ox-Body Technique (•)
The Exalt’s body is fortified to withstand the rigors of a hostile world.
System: The character permanently gains an additional set of (–0) and (–1) health levels.
This Charm can be purchased a number of times equal to the higher of the character’s Stamina or 
Appearance rating.
Hunted Hare Method (•)
The Heart-Eater’s Essence surges in response to danger, propelling her to safety.
System: The Heart-Eater’s jumping distance and height is tripled. If leaping to escape from 
danger, the Heart-Eater increases her jumping distance or height fivefold. In combat, she can 
easily relocate to zones above her without recourse to complex movement.
Killing Frontier Survival Exercise (•)
The Heart-Eater fortifies herself to become a part of the harsh frontiers of her exile. Wild 
predators avoid her. Savage landscapes reveal to her their hidden bounties.
System: The Heart-Eater needs never make a Survival roll to remain safe, comfortable, and fed 
in the wilderness. If she establishes an Awakened Essence Lair in a hostile environment, then 
while inside of it she is completely immune to any resulting environmental damage such as 
deadly cold, extreme heat, or even toxic fumes or lava flows.
Nightmare-Seducing Smile (•)
The Heart-Eater strives to fascinate the mercurial whims of the Wyld, convincing it to spare her 
from its touch by captivating the tides of chaos with the glory of what she is rather than what she 
might be.
System: Upon activating this Charm, the Heart-Eater’s maximum Mote pool capacity is reduced 
by one, but she gains complete protection from being transformed in mind, body, or spirit by the 
Wyld. She may sustain Nightmare-Seducing Smile for a number of days equal to her Essence 
rating, at which point she must make a difficulty 8 Appearance + Presence roll. Success grants 
her another (Essence) rating days of protection, after which she has to roll again. Failure means 
she cannot sustain the tension in her Essence any longer. The Charm immediately ends, and can’t 
be reactivated for the rest of the current story.
Sky-Witch’s Grace (•)
The Heart-Eater can walk upon snow without disturbing its crust, or stand elegantly upon a 
spiderweb. Her balance and poise are immaculate and flawless, preserving her dignity in any 
situation.
System: The character needs never roll to maintain her balance, no matter how precarious her 
footing, and may stand or run upon even the weakest or most insubstantial of surfaces, such as 
falling leaves, individual threads, drops of rain, or even the surface of water. Reflexively 
spending 1 Mote allows her to run and stand upon walls or even to cling to ceilings for the rest of 
the scene.
Agony-Cherishing Clutch (••)
Holding her pain tight to her spirit, the Exalt feeds her suffering to her bitter heart, nourishing 
herself and escaping from its consequences.
System: Reflexively gain 1 Limit to ignore all wound penalties for the rest of the scene.
Paranoia Well Rewarded (••)
The constant simmering tension that is the Heart-Eater’s eternal companion suddenly winds up 
to a shrieking crescendo, sending her into high alert in the moment before true peril descends 
upon her.
System: The Heart-Eater automatically notices ambushes or other unexpected attacks, allowing 
her to defend against them as normal. Each time this Charm forewarns her of such danger, she 
gains 1 Limit.
Sanctity of Self Assertion (••)
The Heart-Eater asserts her fundamental right to exist in the face of a hostile universe, fortifying 
herself with Essence.
System: Whenever the character is the subject of any supernatural power that seeks to transform, 
infect, taint, transport, or control her body or spirit, or to alter her destiny or her place in the 
world (such as by magically altering her Backgrounds), she may reflexively spend 1 Mote and 
roll Wits + Occult against difficulty 7. Success shatters the hostile magic, protecting the Solar
completely, and immunizes her against repeated attempts to exert the same sort of influence for 
the rest of the scene. If within her Awakened Essence Lair, this Charm costs no Motes and is 
rolled against difficulty 6.
Tarnished Chalice Preparation (••)
Refining her bitterness into a transcendental flux within herself, the Heart-Eater may wield her 
gall as a defense with which to burn out any lesser poison or malady.
System: The Exalt may reflexively gain 1 Limit to neutralize any poison or disease.
Regalia of Light and Shadow (•••)
The Heart-Eater can put on a burst of speed, darting into the shadows in response to danger or 
displaying the lost glory that was once her birthright.
System: The Heart-Eater may pay 1 Mote to double her movement speed for the rest of the 
scene. The difficulty of all actions to run someone down or get somewhere quickly are lowered 
by two.
If in danger, then on her turn she can spend 1 Mote, using her action to immediately flash to any 
location within (Appearance rating) zones so long as it is a shaded or cluttered spot where she 
might easily conceal herself. Once there, she can make a reflexive Stealth attempt to vanish, if 
she wishes. This is super-fast movement, not teleportation: the Exalt has to actually be able to 
reach the place she wants to go.
Alternately, the Heart-Eater may spend 2 Motes on her turn to put on an identical burst of superspeed, save that it can terminate anywhere she wants within (Appearance rating) zones, she can 
take one action of her choice upon getting there (such as making a speech or attacking), and a 
vast unfolding lotus of multihued light erupts at the point of her departure, dazzling everyone in 
the zone who fails to make a reflexive (Wits + Awareness) roll against difficulty 8 to look away 
from its brilliance. Dazzled individuals suffer a –2 penalty to all actions for (Heart-Eater’s 
Essence rating) turns.
Shamming Hawk Draws the Snake (•••)
The Heart-Eater substitutes grace for fortitude, dazzling the world to convince it that she is a 
treasure which must be preserved. When nearly struck down regardless, her near-defeat 
confounds her foes and puts them in her power.
System: When unarmored, the Heart-Eater may calculate her soak pool as (Charisma + 
Appearance + armor’s Soak value), but if she applies this calculation and suffers damage 
regardless, she gains a point of Limit.
Moreover, if the Heart-Eater is subjected to damage that would have filled her Incapacitated box 
had she not soaked it, then she may reflexively spend 1 Mote to hurl herself to the ground, her 
blood adorning her in an artistic arrangement, and appear to be very convincingly unconscious or 
dead according to her preference. She then targets the enemy most directly responsible for her 
“death” with an Appearance + Presence roll against difficulty (9 – target’s Empathy; in the case 
of antagonists, just assign them an Empathy rating on the spot). Success causes them to, in a 
moment of sudden horror, realize the magnitude of the crime they’ve just committed and the 
scope of the beauty now removed from the world. They are forced to gain a temporary Intimacy 
of some kind related to the Heart-Eater’s “defeat” or “demise,” either of sorrowful remorse for 
what they’ve done, or infatuation with or admiration for the defeated Exalt (target player’s 
choice). This temporary Intimacy lasts until the end of the current story.
Mental and Utility Charms
Acute Paranoia Principle (•)
Cast adrift into a hostile world, the Heart-Eater sharpens her senses to impossible levels, the 
better to watch for inevitable danger. She can hear a person’s heartbeat from rooms away, read a 
sheet of paper by letting her fingers trail across the ink on it, and count the hairs on a fly’s legs 
from across a room.
System: The Exalt must spend a turn in concentration to activate or banish this Charm. While it 
is active, the difficulty of all Perception rolls drops by –3, to a minimum of difficulty 3. When in 
her Awakened Essence Lair, the Exalt may clearly hear anything said anywhere within the Lair, 
even whispers.
Auroral Phantasm Conjuration (•)
When the Heart-Eater presents an artistic performance, recites a tale, or allows herself to be 
swept up in her own passions while her anima is flaring, she calls forth beautiful, shimmering, 
and clearly unreal shapes and sounds to accompany her words and actions. She might conjure 
phantasmal backup singers to accompany a song, dream forth opponents to react to her shadowboxing, or punctuate an attempt to intimidate someone by having her anima curdle into a falling 
sheet of dripping blood.
System: This Charm is active whenever the Exalt’s anima is flaring. Creative use of Auroral 
Phantasm Conjuration can lower the difficulty of some social actions by one when accompanied 
by a dramatic stunt at the Storyteller’s discretion; it is otherwise simply a means of visual 
emphasis and roleplaying.
Hated Nemesis Pursuit (•)
Once someone has wronged a Heart-Eater, they are never safe from her retribution. She may 
track a miscreant anywhere across the face of the Earth.
System: The Exalt may spend 1 Mote to perfectly track anyone on her Litany of Grudges for the 
next 24 hours. No roll is needed.
Heart-Splitting Blade (•)
Sometimes it’s easier not to care. Sometimes it’s vital not to care. The Heart-Eater places a hand 
over her heart, forges an invisible blade of her Essence, and in one excruciating moment, severs 
a part of herself.
System: Spend 1 Mote. The Heart-Eater immediately terminates one emotional connection of 
her choosing. If hatred for someone was consuming her life, she no longer cares about him. If 
she was afraid of a ghost, now she isn’t. If her love for someone was clouding her judgment, that 
passion becomes ashes in an instant. This Charm can be used to destroy an Intimacy once per 
story (the Exalt can gain a new one to replace it at the beginning of the next story), to instantly 
destroy a condition of magical servitude such as that forged by Irresistible Succubus Style, or to 
sever any other ongoing emotional manipulation effect.
Lore-Gorging Glutton (•)
It is unthinkable that an exile could linger long in any respectable library before being 
discovered. The Heart-Eater learns to gobble down wisdom like a starved beast, and to digest it 
in safety later.
System: Gain 1 Limit. For the rest of the scene, the Heart-Eater may read and memorize
information as fast as she can track her eyes across the page. Books can be consumed in 
moments. The Exalt cannot actually understand or recall any data gained in this fashion until she 
has returned to her Lair and slept for eight hours, giving the information a chance to unpack and 
arrange itself in her mind.
Never-Idle Worrier’s Crafts (•)
The Heart-Eater lets the fears of a hostile tomorrow hurry her efforts today, speeding along her 
efforts to create that which she needs or repair that which she depends on.
System: The Heart-Eater can work three times faster than normal when creating, modifying, or 
repairing something. While within her Lair, she may work five times faster than normal.
Righteous Lion Defense (•)
The Heart-Eater guards well her own heart, girding it in armor of Essence so that it becomes 
inviolate.
System: Any attempt to cause or force the Exalt to betray, undermine, or abandon her Intimacies 
automatically fails.
World-Interrogating Secret (•)
The Heart-Eater smears her blood upon an inanimate object, briefly imbuing it with spiritual life
so that she can question it before it falls back into eternal quiescence.
System: Spend a turn anointing the object and suffer one level of lethal damage. The Heart-Eater 
may then ask the object three questions, which it will answer to the best of its ability. Objects 
only know about things that have happened in their immediate surroundings, which have 
happened to them directly, or which concern their use, so asking a knife who used it to murder 
Nellens Vandar (“a tall, severe-faced man in a slouch hat, who never picked me up before that 
day”) or when it was last sharpened (“many years ago; I could do with it again, you know”) 
would be profitable uses of this Charm, but asking it for advice on planning an assassination is 
unlikely to produce profound insights (“you could try sticking me into someone’s heart!”).
Mended Better Than New (••)
The Heart-Eater anoints the wounded with her blood and Essence, restoring their health and 
vigor with unnatural speed.
System: After a mere scene of treating and ministering another character, the Heart-Eater may 
spend 1 Mote, suffer one level of lethal damage, and roll Intelligence + Medicine against 
difficulty 6. Her patient heals one lethal or two bashing damage per success. If in her Awakened 
Essence Lair, she doesn’t need to suffer damage to use this Charm, instead conjuring the remnant 
power of her blood up from the very wood and stones.
The Heart-Eater may, upon healing someone with this Charm, learn exactly how her patient
regards her: whether he thinks of her as a friend, enemy, or stranger; whether he harbors secret 
longing for her; if he secretly resents or despises her; and so on. Alternately, she may forfeit this 
insight to lower the difficulty of the healing roll to 5.
Fearsome Affront Transcription (••)
Recognizing the spidery touch of someone else’s fingers upon her mind, the Heart-Eater breaks 
the offending digits and makes of them pens to scribe the trespass upon her heart.
System: Reflexively gain 1 Limit in response to thought-altering or mind-controlling magic to 
become immune to it for the rest of the scene. The responsible party’s name is immediately 
enshrined on the Litany of Grudges.
Nerve-Steadying Focus (••)
The Heart-Eater reaches deep into the core of her Essence to fortify her will, and pays the price 
for touching that defiled pool.
System: Reflexively gain 1 Limit. For the rest of the scene, Willpower rolls are not subject to the 
rule of 1s, and count results of 10 as two successes.
Object-Awakening Anointment (••)
The Heart-Eater smears her Essence-rich blood onto an object, granting it a ghastly parody of life 
and animation. It then acts as she bids.
System: Suffer one level of lethal damage to animate an object for the rest of the scene. Animate 
objects can move and twist within reason: a chair could gallop, a door slam, a suit of armor jump 
up and fight. Animated objects act with Expertise pools equal to three times the Exalt’s Essence 
(maximum of 10) and Utility pools of 2. They have Aptitudes for “doing chores,” “obeying 
instructions,” and “fighting to protect the master,” along with anything else their form might 
suggest (such as “playing Gateway” for an animated Gateway board). Large objects also have an 
Aptitude for “feats of strength.” Objects have a base damage of 0-1, and 0-2 soak, depending on 
their sturdiness, and can suffer damage equal to the Exalt’s Essence rating before falling inert.
If used within the Heart-Eater’s Awakened Essence Lair, the object remains animated for so long 
as the Lair is empowered and the object stays within.
Somnolent Lullaby (••)
The Heart-Eater layers peaceful Essence into her voice, putting listeners to sleep.
System: The Heart-Eater sings, spends 1 Mote, then rolls Charisma + Performance against 
difficulty 6. Anyone who listens to her song for at least five consecutive minutes must make a 
Willpower roll, also at difficulty 6, and gain more successes than the Exalt did or fall asleep for 
one hour per success by which the Heart-Eater won the contested roll. He cannot be roused by 
anything shy of a cacophonous sound or being physically shaken or injured.
Within the Heart-Eater’s Lair, it takes only a full turn of singing before Somnolent Lullaby takes 
effect.
Cunning Witch Studies (•••)
The Heart-Eater plumbs the fractured depths of her past-life memories, dredging up scraps and 
bright dregs of knowledge about the finer points of sorcery. This allows her to optimize its 
practice.
System: Upon purchasing this Charm, the Heart-Eater lowers the difficulty of all shape sorcery 
rolls by–1.
Fortuitous Omen Insight (•••)
In the depths of her Lair, the Heart-Eater may sink into contemplation of one who has wronged 
her and offer up a sacrifice of Essence to the forbidden darkness of the cosmos. In return, it 
grants her the secret key to her foe’s heart.
System: While in the Heart-Eater’s Awakened Essence Lair, spend 3 Motes and roll Perception 
+ Occult against a difficulty of the target’s (Manipulation + Socialize). The target must be 
someone named on the Heart-Eater’s Litany of Grudges. Success reveals a prize the target will 
give anything to attain. This may be as simple as a certain sum of money or as daunting as 
bringing a loved one back from the dead. The Heart-Eater is in no way guaranteed to be able to 
provide the price for which the target will betray all he holds dear. But she at least knows that 
price.
Knight-Forging Enchantment (•••)
Given a mortal’s heart, the Exalt may imbue it with some of her blood and power and return it as 
a talisman of terrible strength, making him into her ardent knight.
System: The Heart-Eater may respond to a mortal’s declaration of love, admiration, devotion, or 
friendship by kissing him upon the hand, forehead, lips, or chest and spending 3 Motes. The 
mortal feels an immediate surge of power and affirmational pleasure. In his dreams during the 
next seven nights, he finds himself tutored by nameless phantoms in the arts of protecting and 
promoting the interests of the Exalt. He gains an Expertise pool of 9 dice, and aptitudes in 
“Defending the Heart-Eater,” “Acting as the Heart-Eater’s companion,” and “Amusing the 
Heart-Eater with artistic performances.” This pool only functions when performing those 
Aptitudes; otherwise, he retains his normal Expertise pool.
If a mortal protagonist Knight-Forging Enchantment’s dream training, then after seven nights 
they may purchase three dots of the Physical Attributes, Appearance, Wits, Awareness, 
Athletics, Brawl, Melee, Presence, Performance, or Socialize as though they were Favored 
Attributes or Abilities. These dream-granted dots only apply when working to defend the HeartEater, promote her interests, or do her bidding. This Charm can be used on the same mortal 
protagonist repeatedly.
An enchanted knight can be further enhanced so that his phantom dots become applicable in all 
situations. This requires him to permit the Heart-Eater to anoint his forehead with an occult sign, 
scribed in her blood (she must suffer a level of lethal damage and spend another 1 Mote in the 
process). This also binds his soul to the Heart-Eater. He now loves her unconditionally and 
permanently, gaining an inviolable Intimacy to that effect; this bond can only be superseded by 
effects that could force a character to violate his Nature.
Staring Into Darkness (•••)
The Heart-Eater sinks into the deepest threads of her chronic anxiety, nesting her consciousness 
at the point where raw nerves touch the cosmic truths of a universe full of hostile blades. 
Through such heightened tension, she gains the ability to pick out the presence of potential 
enemies.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Essence. Until the sun next rises or sets, the Heart-Eater becomes 
aware when she stands in the presence of any supernatural being, though she doesn’t inherently 
know what sort of supernatural being any given individual may be. She also doesn’t know who
in her presence is a supernatural entity, simply that someone is. If used in the presence of other 
known supernatural beings (i.e. her Circlemates), she may learn to filter them out so they don’t 
blind this Charm with false positives.
Lair Charms
Border-Sealing Edict (•)
The Heart-Eater makes an arcane gesture whose meaning has long-since been lost. All exits from 
her Lair cease to exist.
System: While within her Awakened Essence Lair, the Exalt spends 1 Mote and a turn making a 
gesture. Until she uses this Charm again or dies, all of her Lair’s possible exits vanish, and its 
boundaries become indestructible, at least from the inside. The Lair can still be entered, although 
whatever means was used to do so vanishes as soon as the intruder steps inside of a sealed Lair.
Cradle of Wood and Waves (•)
The Heart-Eater may claim a moving vehicle for her Awakened Essence Lair, such as a 
conestoga wagon, or a cabin or hold in a ship.
System: This Charm permanently expands the range of spaces that might be claimed as a Lair.
In combination with Deadly Witch Labyrinth, it could facilitate the claiming of an entire 
merchantman or other large ship.
Dry Eyes Unblinking (•)
The Heart-Eater learns to do without the false panacea of sleep, preferring to keep her eyes on 
the door so that her enemies may not catch her unawares, even within her hidden sanctuary.
System: While within her Awakened Essence Lair, the Heart-Eater does not need to sleep and 
never suffers penalties due to fatigue.
Enduring Home Reassurance (•)
The Heart-Eater may enact a more powerful consecration upon her Awakened Essence Lair, 
making it last far longer without the need for active renewal.
System: By spending a point of Willpower while establishing or renewing a Lair, the HeartEater causes it to endure for a year rather than 28 days.
Final Bolthole Technique (•)
In extremis, the Heart-Eater may sacrifice her very lair to save herself from defeat, leaving its 
mystic connections to collapse behind her even as she is carried to safety.
System: When the Heart-Eater’s Incapacitated health box should be marked off with damage 
while within her Lair, she may reflexively sacrifice her connection to her Lair to initiate an 
escape. She does not mark down any damage from the attack or injury that should have felled 
her, and is instantly shunted into the geomancy of Creation, to be deposited at the edge of a 
nearby place of power.
Home Secret Home (•)
The Heart-Eater may take special care when first anointing or renewing her Lair, scribing sacred 
blood-sigils on all of its entrances which hide it from the eyes of strangers.
System: When establishing or renewing an Awakened Essence Lair, the Heart-Eater may suffer 
one additional level of lethal damage to hide the location from the world. If the Lair is an entire 
structure, then strangers simply overlook its basic presence. If it’s a smaller part of a larger 
building, such as a wing of a Manse, then uninvited guests can’t find any doors or other means of 
entry. Someone who knows where the Lair is and has business with its occupant (such as a 
landlord seeking rent) can make a difficulty 8 Perception + Awareness roll to find the occulted 
location. Otherwise, nobody can find the Lair unless they witness the Heart-Eater entering it or 
she has invited them inside.
Split Heart Gambit (•)
Dividing her focus, the Heart-Eater expands the range of her territory.
System: The Heart-Eater may claim up to two separate Awakened Essence Lairs at the same 
time, though maintaining upkeep on them both may prove to be a drain upon her resources. At 
Essence 4+, she may maintain up to three Lairs with this Charm.
Deadly Witch Labyrinth (••)
The Heart-Eater can claim an enormous space as an Awakened Essence Lair.
System: The Exalt may claim spaces up to the size of a palace, sprawling manor estate, entire 
farm, cottage and a few acres of surrounding land, modestly large cave system, or entire Manse
as her Lair. Doing so takes a week of attunement, and costs four levels of lethal damage and 5 
Motes. Overwriting an active Lair with a new one of this size ups the cost to 8 Motes and 3 
Willpower.
Renewing the Lair’s power takes an entire day of work, two levels of lethal damage, and 3 
Motes.
Entangling Clutter Offensive (••)
Those who fight a Heart-Eater within her Lair find that the very environment strives to confound 
them and to aid its mistress. Their feet trip over rug-creases and stray books, their hips bash 
against furniture as they attempt to dodge, and anything from billowing curtains to reflected 
beams of sunlight foul their sight when trying to aim at the Exalt.
System: All attacks directed at the Heart-Eater within her Lair increase their difficulty by one. If 
this would raise an attack’s difficulty above 9, it loses one success. Anyone fighting the HeartEater in her Lair also lowers their Defense by one.
Environmental Interposition Defense (••)
The Heart-Eater may call upon her bond with her Lair to protect herself. Blows that would 
shatter her bones or split her flesh instead provoke eruptions of paper from nearby bookshelves, 
or pulverize floorboards several feet away.
System: The player may reflexively spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower after the character is struck by 
an attack, but before damage is rolled. The Heart-Eater negates the damage roll and suffers no 
damage; instead, her Lair suffers the damage on her behalf. This Charm can only be used when 
inside the character’s Awakened Essence Lair, and can only be used once in each zone of the 
Lair without first making repairs to the area. Alternately, the Exalt may invoke this Charm at no 
Mote or Willpower cost, instead destroying her connection to her Lair altogether to power its 
activation.
Home and Halberd (••)
The Heart-Eater connects herself to every element of her Lair, gaining absolute sovereignty over 
it.
System: The character spends 1 Mote and winds the Essence of her Awakened Essence Lair 
through her heart. So long as she continues to commit her attention to the attunement, she can 
simultaneously perceive everything happening in the Lair, although without much focus; or can 
focus in on events in one particular location in great detail, at the cost of shutting everything else 
out while doing so. She can also control all of the Lair’s windows, doors, and locks. The Exalt 
suffers a –2 penalty to all other actions than controlling her lair while this Charm is active. Its 
effects last until she releases her concentration upon it.
Invisible Scenery Spirit (••)
The Heart-Eater blends her anima into her Lair, becoming indistinguishable from it.
System: By standing still and silent within the confines of her Awakened Essence Lair, the 
Heart-Eater becomes functionally invisible and impossible to notice. This obscurity remains in 
place so long as she doesn’t move or make noise. Spending 1 Mote allows her to slowly move 
about unnoticed for the rest of the scene, so long as she doesn’t make some sort of loud noise or 
take blatant action such as attacking or slamming a door.
Sanctuary of Blood and Souls (••)
The Heart-Eater’s wounds recover at a vastly accelerated rate when she rests within her 
Awakened Essence Lair.
System: So long as she takes no strenuous activity, the Heart-Eater heals all bashing damage or 
one level of lethal damage per 30 minutes of rest within her Lair. An hour of rest mends one 
level of aggravated damage.
Forging the Final Refuge (•••)
The Heart-Eater reaches into her chest or down her own throat and draws out her red and 
dripping heart. Embedding it into the substance of her Awakened Essence Lair, she transforms it 
into a place of profound power.
System: This Charm is a ritual taking fifteen minutes to perform, during which the Heart-Eater 
creates a secure hiding place somewhere in her Lair (such as beneath its floorboards), 
consecrated with blood and protected by whispered spells, and then extracts her heart and seals it 
up within the hidey-hole. This costs 5 Motes, 1 Willpower, and inflicts three levels of unsoakable 
aggravated damage.
The Heart-Eater’s lair immediately becomes a Demesne with a rating equal to her Essence 
rating. The Lair is no longer subject to decay, and does not need ritual maintenance to extend its 
duration. It will last forever, so long as the Exalt’s heart remains embedded within it.
Searching the Lair for the Heart-Eater’s heart is a difficult process, requiring 15 successes on an 
extended Perception + Investigation roll against difficulty 9, made at one-hour intervals. Anyone 
who gains control of the Exalt’s heart may compel her obedience to any commands they issue, or 
may strike her instantly dead by destroying the heart.
The Exalt may reclaim her heart by swallowing it. If the heart is taken from its hiding place, the 
Lair is stripped of all benefits bestowed by this Charm.
Infinite Retribution Salon (•••)
The Heart-Eater intwines her killing intent into her Lair, such that it strikes back at anyone who 
dares to strike her.
System: Spend 1 Mote reflexively to activate this Charm. Until the end of the round, the HeartEater’s lair responds to every attack against her by launching a reflexive counterattack after the 
attack resolves. This takes the form of furniture flying across the room, heavy books leaping off 
of shelves, knives flying out of the kitchen, and so on. Each counterattack is made with a pool of 
the Heart-Eater’s (Manipulation + Presence) and inflicts a base damage of 4B or 4L, depending 
on the nature of the attack. Because these attacks are made by the Lair and not the Heart-Eater, 
they cannot be enhanced by Charms. Infinite Retribution Salon can only be used in the HeartEater’s Awakened Essence Lair.
Ritual Bloodletting Circle (•••)
Before she settles down for the night, the Heart-Eater bleeds in a circle around herself and 
charges the space with Essence, forging a brief connection to her Awakened Essence Lair.
System: Suffer one level of unsoakable lethal damage to use this Charm. When the Heart-Eater 
is inside of this consecrated circle, which may be large enough to encompass the middle of a 
zone (generally, the space around a bed, campfire, or sleeping roll), she is considered to be 
within her Awakened Essence Lair. If she sleeps in the circle, she may regain Willpower.
Exposing a fragment of her Lair to the world leaves the Heart-Eater feeling intensely vulnerable. 
If anyone witnesses her within her circle of consecrated blood, she immediately gains a point of 
Limit and places them on the Litany of Grudges.
Refuge Charms
The following Charms may only be learned and used if the Heart-Eater knows the Charm 
Forging the Final Refuge.
Entrancements of the Heart (•)
The Heart-Eater refines the interplay of her heart and hearth, enchanting her Lair and making it 
into a place that beguiles and enslaves those who accept her hospitality.
System: This Charm permanently improves Forging the Final Refuge. An Awakened Essence 
Lair enhanced with that Charm becomes layered with subtle fascinations. Those who partake of 
its hospitality by eating a meal or sleeping within its boundaries must succeed at a Willpower roll 
against difficulty (4 + the Exalt’s Essence rating), or else fall prey to a compulsion to linger in 
the Lair as long as the Heart-Eater wishes them there, and to assent to her requests while under 
her roof. Protagonists may shake off this influence for a scene by spending 2 Willpower, while 
antagonists must reduce their Resolve by 2 for the rest of the story to do the same.
Guarding the Heart (•)
The Heart-Eater refines the interplay of her heart and hearth, fortifying her Lair against both 
discovery and attack.
System: This Charm permanently improves Forging the Final Refuge. An Awakened Essence 
Lair enhanced with that Charm gains increases the difficulty of all rolls to locate or break into it 
by the Heart-Eater’s Essence rating, and its interior is filled with magical traps which are 
difficulty (4 + Heart-Eater’s Essence rating) to avoid, inflicting a base damage of her Essence 
rating.
Maze of the Heart (•)
The Heart-Eater refines the interplay of her heart and hearth, expanding the scope of her 
Awakened Essence Lair.
System: This Charm permanently improves Forging the Final Refuge. An Awakened Essence 
Lair enhanced with that Charm becomes bigger on the inside, growing new rooms and 
appointments according to the Heart-Eater’s will and desire. These unreal spaces are always 
stylistically congruent with the rest of the Lair, having the same general architectural style, types 
of furnishings, and the like, but may otherwise occupy any configuration or contents that strike 
the Exalt’s fancy. They may increase the Lair’s size by up to three times its original scope and 
are utterly inaccessible from outside of the Lair.
If the Heart-Eater also knows Split Heart Gambit, she may use these internal additions to connect 
her disparate Lairs together, creating doors and hallways that connect one Lair to another 
regardless of the space between.
Voice of the Heart (•)
The Heart-Eater refines the interplay of her heart and hearth, granting her Lair a mind and a 
voice.
System: This Charm permanently improves Forging the Final Refuge. An Awakened Essence 
Lair enhanced with that Charm becomes aware and communicative. It knows everything that 
transpires within its various rooms and spaces, and can understand the Heart-Eater’s words and 
communicate with her by whispering in her ear wherever in the world she may be.
Social Charms
Acorn-Coveting Fascination (•)
The Heart-Eater may imbue an object or idea with her Essence, and thence beguile anyone into 
doing almost anything to possess it.
System: The Heart-Eater spends 1 Mote to invest a mystical allure into a service or item, then 
roll (Manipulation or Appearance) + Empathy against a difficulty equal to the target’s Willpower 
to convince them that they need it. She can raise or lower the fundamental value of whatever 
she’s trying to sell in the target’s eyes by a factor of (1 + successes rolled), to a bare minimum of 
making worthless objects seem to be worth Resources •. This Charm can also increase the 
market value of the Heart-Eater’s services, or those of others. 
Acorn-Coveting Fascination doesn’t force the target to accept a deal, only to re-evaluate its 
reasonable worth; it also doesn’t mystically enforce any agreements made under its auspices. Its 
enchantment fades after the Heart-Eater’s (Essence rating) hours, at which point the target may 
very well realize they’ve been swindled.
Cold Light of the Heavens (•)
When the Heart-Eater’s anima is flaring, her eyes glow with an otherworldly and terrible 
radiance, and deep shadows draw themselves across her features. She seems taller, grander, and 
cloaked in all the forgotten fears of childhood.
System: The Heart-Eater permanently reduces the difficulty of all intimidation attempts while 
her anima is flaring by two.
Joyous Exhalation (•)
Drawing up refined Essence from her lungs to her mouth, the Heart-Eater exhales a gleaming, 
nacreous cloud of slightly hallucinogenic bliss. Those who breathe it in become cheerily 
incoherent, distracted by pleasant thoughts and visions, and highly vulnerable to suggestion.
System: The Exalt spends 1 Mote and exhales a cloud that envelops everyone within the same 
zone. Those affected become euphoric and highly suggestible for the rest of the scene; they must 
spend one point of Willpower to avoid going along with any pleasant-sounding suggestion that 
doesn’t violate their Nature. While they can fight back if attacked, they won’t initiate any 
aggressive actions of their own accord, and suffer –1 die to all combat rolls. Essence-users can 
make a Willpower roll against difficulty (4 + Heart-Eater’s Charisma) to throw off the Joyous 
Exhalation’s influence. Those who need not breathe are immune to it.
Smile-Restoring Instinct (•)
The Heart-Eater becomes intensely sensitive to rejection, mistrust, or any other tiny signals of 
social disapproval, and instinctively grasps exactly the right thing to say to put things to rights.
System: Spend 1 Mote to re-roll any Empathy, Presence, Performance, or Socialize roll, keeping 
the preferred result.
Smooth Words Style (•)
The Heart-Eater instinctively picks just the right words for any situation.
System: By spending 1 Mote, the Heart-Eater’s words become impossible to ignore, and she 
reduces the difficulty of all social rolls by –2 (to a minimum of 3) for the rest of the scene. This 
Charm is always active inside of her Lair.
Storming the Unguarded Moment (•)
The Heart-Eater learns to judge the perfect moment and the right thing to say to shock genuine 
emotional responses out of others.
System: Upon asking a question, the Exalt may spend 1 Mote and make an opposed 
(Manipulation or Appearance) + (Empathy or Presence) roll, resisted by the target’s Willpower.
If she gains more successes than the target, he is startled into giving an honest and unguarded 
answer. This Charm can’t be used to tactically interrogate a target about secret information, only 
to ask how he feels about things and to get an unfiltered and unguarded response.
Underworld Brotherhood Recognition (•)
The Heart-Eater wraps the truth of her wretchedness about her like a shawl, kindling recognition 
in other criminals and outlaws.
System: Any career criminal the Exalt meets instinctively recognizes her as a fellow member of 
the underworld, and furthermore, one who represents potential opportunities for enrichment and 
advancement rather than a potential threat or rival. This is a potent first impression, but won’t 
negate or erase any knowledge to the contrary that an individual might have (it won’t make them 
forget their boss ordering them to kill the Heart-Eater, for example).
Uneven First Meeting Benefit (•)
The Heart-Eater makes herself compelling and yet intimidating to strangers, who are drawn to 
her and confounded by her so long as she remains an enigma.
System: The Heart-Eater enjoys a –2 difficulty reduction on all social actions directed at anyone 
who knows nothing about her. Knowing the Exalt’s address, profession, name, social circle, 
reputation, or any other distinguishing feature beyond appearance (“that’s the woman who was 
seen leaving the prince’s room after he was murdered!”) voids the benefits granted by this 
Charm.
Dissemblance-Severing Eye (••)
The Heart-Eater shapes her paranoia into a blade that cuts through all pretense, laying bare 
others’ intentions toward her.
System: The Heart-Eater may pay 1 Mote to instantly read someone’s intentions without waiting 
for him to reveal himself (see p. XX). Success reveals what the subject wants to get out of the 
current interaction. If their goal or intention is hostile toward or contemptuous toward the HeartEater, they are automatically added to the Litany of Grudges. Accepting 1 Limit after a 
successful roll will also let the Heart-Eater read the target’s surface thoughts for the next 
(Essence rating) minutes.
Flower-Cutting Kiss (••)
The Heart-Eater focuses upon a person’s most deeply-held convictions or passions and, with a 
kiss, smothers them to cold ashes.
System: The Heart-Eater kisses her target (as formally, chastely, or passionately as she likes)
and spends 1 Mote. She must select one of the target’s Intimacies and make a contested roll of 
Wits + Empathy against the target’s Willpower, both at difficulty 6; if the Heart-Eater gains 
more successes, that Intimacy is cast into doubt for the rest of the current story.
Flower-Cutting Kiss does not grant the Heart-Eater knowledge of a person’s Intimacies. She 
must learn that information on her own. She can use this Charm to blindly guess at the presence 
of an Intimacy, but if she erroneously targets an Intimacy that does not exist, she immediately 
becomes aware of her error and gains 2 Limit.
Forked Tongue Denouncement (••)
The Heart-Eater rebukes and reviles someone else, enumerating his flaws and failings, his 
disagreeable features, and the reasons why he is without worth or value to the world. Imbuing 
her words with Essence, they resonate unpleasantly against the target’s soul, convincing listeners 
that all she says is true.
System: The Heart-Eater spends 2 Motes and rolls Manipulation + (Presence or Socialize) 
against a difficulty of the target’s (Charisma + Presence or Influence, whichever is highest) 
rating. The target may attempt to rebut the Heart-Eater’s condemnation by spending a point of 
Willpower and making a (Charisma or Manipulation) + Presence roll of his own, at a difficulty 
of the Heart-Eater’s (Appearance + Socialize). If he neglects to do so, or fails to gain more 
successes than the Heart-Eater, then the condemnation sticks. Nobody who hears him being 
reviled will do anything at all to help or support him for a number of weeks equal to the number 
of successes by which the Heart-Eater won the roll unless induced to do so by force.
Fracture-Lines of the Heart (••)
Observing someone in a social milieu for a few moments, the Heart-Eater gains an instinctive 
understanding of the stress points of their psyche, and intuits exactly the right thing to say to 
provoke a flood of emotion.
System: After observing someone talking for a minute or so, the Heart-Eater may roll Perception 
+ Empathy against difficulty (4 + target’s Manipulation). Success allows her to decode the 
target’s emotional makeup. She may then, at any point during the same scene, spend 1 Mote and 
use an action to tell the target something perfectly calibrated to break him. The target is 
immediately consumed with either all-consuming rage or crushing sorrow, and must spend 1 
Willpower per turn to retain their composure. He must spend a total amount of Willpower equal 
to the successes on the Heart-Eater’s roll to ride out the storm; otherwise the berserk meltdown 
or sobbing collapse is merely delayed.
Gentle Iron Whispers (••)
Using only smiles, fast-talk, a bit of banter, and the target’s undivided attention, the Heart-Eater 
may bypass the target’s conscious mind to implant a command deep into his subconscious.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll (Manipulation or Appearance) + (Etiquette or Performance) 
against a difficulty of the target’s Willpower rating. One or two successes will allow the HeartEater to command her target to do anything that doesn’t seem tremendously unusual or out of 
character. With three or four successes, she can command the target to do anything that doesn’t 
endanger himself or a loved one. With five or more successes, the target will risk his life and the 
lives of others at the Exalt’s command. The target will be aware his actions are unusual and 
inexplicable afterwards, unless the Heart-Eater spends an additional 1 Willpower. In this case, 
the target will rationalize his actions to the best of his ability.
Gentle Iron Whispers cannot hypnotize a target into harming or killing himself, compel him into 
certain death, or force him to betray his Nature, unless it is applied while within the HeartEater’s Awakened Essence Lair, in which case the target can be made to betray his Nature, but 
not to throw his life away. Protagonists targeted by this Charm may spend 1 Willpower to escape 
its effects for a scene if they can cite an Intimacy that it is forcing them to act against. Spending a 
number of points of Willpower equal to the Heart-Eater’s Essence rating breaks the Charm’s 
hold.
Heart-Stirring Performance (••)
Making a speech or musical performance, the Heart-Eater instinctively matches her words and 
notes to the deepest needs of those around her, affirming the truth of their lives and the empty 
ache of their souls. They are both renewed of mind and spirit, and greatly inclined to see the 
Exalt as a source of affirmational truths.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll (Manipulation or Appearance) + Performance (difficulty 6). If 
successful, then everyone who witnesses the Heart-Eater’s performance gains 1 Willpower point, 
so long as this wouldn’t raise their current Willpower above either their maximum, or the 
number of successes she rolled to activate Heart-Stirring Performance. For the next (Essence 
rating) days, anyone who gains Willpower from the performance is strongly inclined to believe 
that anything the Heart-Eater tells them is true; should it come down to a matter of mechanics, 
she lowers the difficulty of Manipulation rolls against them by two.
A character can’t gain Willpower from from Heart-Stirring Performance more than once per day.
Passions Well Consummated (••)
The Heart-Eater entwines the powers of love and lust and forges of them silken chains with 
which she binds herself to another.
System: This Charm may be activated when the Heart-Eater achieves a moment of romantic or 
sexual intimacy with another character. While torrid lovemaking will certainly qualify, it’s not 
required. All it takes is a moment of romantic or physical connection: lingering close-range eye 
contact; fingers meeting across a table and sparking a mutual smile; a joke, laughter, and the 
click of mutual attraction.
Spend 1 Mote and roll Appearance + Empathy against a difficulty of the paramour’s Willpower. 
Success makes the Heart-Eater and her partner intensely susceptible to one another’s suggestions 
for the next (successes rolled) weeks; each must pay 1 Willpower per scene not to immediately 
acquiesce to any suggestion the other makes. Each point of Willpower spent in this fashion 
reduces the remaining duration of the Charm’s effects by one week.
There are several restrictions to Passions Well Consummated. First, it can’t push someone into 
violating their Nature. Second, it can’t be used to demand a renewal or deeper commitment to 
romantic or sexual intimacy. Third, in order to use it, the connection must be genuine and 
reciprocal; in other words, the Heart-Eater can’t deploy this Charm through cynical seduction of 
someone she holds in contempt. Its power comes from her bitter heart. She has to actually care
to activate Passions Well Consummated. Should she, for any reason, cease caring after the 
Charm takes effect, then it loses its power over her… but not over her paramour.
Threat-Assessing Glance (••)
The Heart-Eater can unravel the interactions of others with a bit of focused scrutiny, as well as 
whether they mean her ill.
System: The Exalt can analyze the relationship between any two characters by spending a turn 
observing them, then spending 1 Mote and rolling Perception + Empathy against difficulty 8. 
Even so much as one success not only reveals whether the two characters know one another, but 
also the depth and nature of that relationship (“They’re coworkers, and also in a relationship, but 
are both hiding that”). If they’re currently plotting something against the Heart-Eater together, 
she immediately becomes aware of that fact, gains 1 Limit, and adds the conspirators to the 
Litany of Grudges.
Blossoming Flowers of Light (•••)
The Heart-Eater speaks with passion and conviction, wrapping her words in a gleaming shell of 
Essence. She plants them like seeds in her target’s mind, trusting that they will grow into the 
blossoms she desires.
System: The Heart-Eater spends 2 Motes when making an attempt to instill a temporary 
Intimacy into someone (see p. XX). If the attempt succeeds, a true Intimacy rather than a 
temporary Intimacy is formed. Antagonists will generally keep this Intimacy permanently unless 
the events of the story convince them to abandon it. Protagonists can reject the formation of this 
Intimacy by spending 3 Willpower. If a protagonist has more than her maximum allotment of 
Intimacies at the end of a story, she must choose which Intimacies to discard until she is back 
down to her normal number of Intimacies.
An individual can’t be targeted with this Charm more than once per story.
Heart-Eating Bewitchment (•••)
The Heart-Eater floods a target’s soul with beauty, addicting him to her presence and making 
him her worshipful lackey.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Appearance + Performance (difficulty of the target’s 
Willpower). Success transforms the target into the Heart-Eater’s obedient servant. The more 
successes rolled, the longer the target’s servitude lasts, as per the chart below:
Result Duration
Botch Subject cannot be targeted by this Charm for the rest of the story.
Failure Subject cannot be targeted by this Charm again in the current scene.
1 One hour
2 One day
3 One week
4 One month
5 One year
Each point of Willpower the target spends to resist this Charm negates one success on the HeartEater’s roll, and can potentially drive the effect down to a “botch” result. Antagonists instead 
lower their Resolve for the rest of the story. Targets with a positive Intimacy toward the HeartEater can spend Willpower to deny their servitude for a scene, but this does not reduce the 
Charm’s duration so long as the Intimacy persists.
Memory-Correcting Measures (•••)
In response to someone else’s statement, the Heart-Eater smiles and corrects them: “No, don’t 
you remember? It went like this…” Once she’s finished speaking, their memories agree with her 
assertion. If standing in her Lair, she can simply narrate new memories to overwrite the target’s 
current recollections even without them granting her a prompt.
System: Spend 2 Motes while detailing the subject’s new memories and roll Manipulation + 
Presence, resisted by the target’s Willpower (both at difficulty 6). The subject’s memories can be 
rewritten based on the number of successes left after subtracting the result of the opposed 
Willpower roll:
1 success: The events of a recent scene can be rewritten.
2 successes: The events of a recent day can be rewritten.
3 successes: A single pivotal memory in the subject’s life can be rewritten. Alternately, entire 
weeks of the subject’s past can be written so long as they’re not crucial to the substance of her 
life or identity.
4 successes: A major feature of the subject’s life can be rewritten (such as who they’re married 
to, where they went to school, or whether the Solar is a hated enemy or their childhood friend).
5+ successes: The subject can be given an entirely new history.
Passion-Stoking Oratory (•••)
Seizing up the mingled passions and tempers of a group of people, the Heart-Eater braids their 
emotions together into an all-consuming gestalt and directs them as she sees fit. This can 
paralyze a mob with shared regret or sorrow, or transform a salon into an impromptu riot: the 
Exalt has only to craft the necessary emotions, and then suggest a direction for them to move in.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Charisma + Performance against difficulty 6. Everyone present 
whose Willpower or Resolve rating is equal to or less than the number of successes rolled is 
swept up in the emotion staged by the Heart-Eater, and may be directed at either nothing in 
particular or at a course of the Exalt’s choosing.
Radiant Queen of Hearts (•••)
The Heart-Eater wraps herself in the tenor of all things aspirational and noble. Those who behold 
her see that she embodies all that they value in the world and all that affirms their own values. It 
becomes unthinkable to oppose or attack her.
System: The Heart-Eater spends 2 Motes. For the rest of the scene, whenever anyone seeks to 
oppose her in any respect, either socially or physically, they must make a Willpower roll against 
a difficulty of the Exalt’s (Appearance + [higher of Empathy or Socialize]) or else abort their 
action and bow their head in shame at their own perfidity. Affected characters may still defend 
against the Heart-Eater’s attacks, but lower their Defense by –1.
Rumors Like Scattered Leaves (•••)
Tying a packet of infectious Essence into her words, the Heart-Eater murmurs a scandalous 
rumor in a packed room. Someone hears it. Someone repeats it. Soon, everyone’s heard it from 
someone.
System: Spend 2 Essence and roll Manipulation + Socialize against a difficulty of (3 + the most 
relevant Background of whoever the rumor’s about, such as Influence or Connections). While 
this Charm can’t ensure that everyone believes whatever terrible rumor the Exalt wishes to 
spread, success does guarantee that within a day or two, everyone who matters has at least heard
it.
Venomous Smile Riposte (•••)
The Heart-Eater may effortlessly seize upon a social thrust directed against her and plant it back 
in the chest of the one who tilted against her. Forgetting the attempted barb will prove much 
more difficult.
System: When slighted, humiliated, or accused of wrongdoing, the Exalt reflexively gain 1 Limit
and roll (Manipulation or Appearance) + Socialize against the accuser’s resisted Manipulation + 
Presence (both difficulty 6). Should the Heart-Eater gain more successes, then everyone present 
becomes convinced the aggressor was in fact the one who belittled, insulted, or implicated 
herself. The aggressor goes onto the Litany of Grudges either way.
Spiritual Charms
Terrestrial Circle Sorcery (•)
The Heart-Eater has been initiated into the practice of sorcery. She can cast Terrestrial Circle 
spells and enact sorcerous workings. Purchase of this Charm grants one shaping ritual and one 
Terrestrial Circle spell.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
Witch Eyes Technique (•)
The Heart-Eater attunes herself to those precincts of reality set apart from the mundane, and the 
power that dwells within them.
System: The Heart-Eater can roll Perception + Occult against difficulty 7 to survey the Essence 
of the world around her. Depending on the number of successes rolled and the presence of 
anything interesting to detect, she might uncover things like the radiance of a nearby Manse or 
Demesne, a subtle but active spell or sorcerous working, or the fact that a ferocious amount of 
Essence was spent in the area sometime recently. She can also discern particular profiles, flavors, 
or “colors” of Essence if she has encountered them before, and thus might use this Charm to 
track a missing Circlemate by the trail of his expended Essence.
Celestial Circle Sorcery (••)
Resonance: Occult
The Heart-Eater has been initiated into the mighty workings of the Celestial Circle of sorcery. 
She can cast Celestial Circle spells. Purchase of this Charm grants one shaping ritual and one 
Celestial Circle spell.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
Essence-Devouring Repast (••)
When the Heart-Eater visits destruction upon anything touched by eternity, she may rend apart 
the fabric of its being and consume its power, adding it to her own.
System: When the Exalt slays a spirit, demon, or ghost, the player can opt to roll Manipulation + 
Occult (difficulty 6). Doing so prevents the being from ever returning or reforming, and grants 
the Heart-Eater 2 Motes on the spot. She may also enact this Charm upon slaying another Exalt, 
gaining 5 Motes from doing so.
Furthermore, the Heart-Eater can reflexively spend 1 Mote to gain the ability to see and strike 
intangible beings for the rest of the scene.
Spirit-Subverting Poison (••)
The Heart-Eater entices a spirit with a display of power, and then, outwitting it, binds it to 
become her creature by imbuing it with a corrosive spiritual toxin.
System: The Heart-Eater spends a turn attracting a god, ghost, elemental, or demon’s attention, 
during which time it can sense the powerful bounty of her Essence. She may then offer up a 
contest of wits in which, if the spirit wins, she will grant it a portion of her power. If the spirit 
accepts, the two enter into an extended contested roll of Wits + (Lore, Presence, Performance, or 
Socialize), both at difficulty 6. This generally takes the form of a competition of riddles, 
storytelling, dance, or some other form of skill. The first to gain two more successes than the 
opponent wins. If the spirit is triumphant, the Heart-Eater loses 1 Mote and suffers one level of 
unsoakable lethal damage as the spirit forcibly tears free its prize, increasing its Resolve by 1 for 
the rest of the story. If the Heart-Eater is triumphant, then she tricks the spirit into believing it 
has won when it has not. She still surrenders 1 Mote, but converts it into a hidden catalytic 
poison which hollows out the spirit and makes it subservient to her will. The spirit must now 
obey her every command for 28 days.
If she takes the spirit back to her Awakened Essence Lair, any time it spends in the Lair does not 
count toward the time of service it owes her, though it must still obey her within the Lair.
Stealth and Disguise Charms
Crowd-Joining Evasion (•)
Stealing a tiny bit of Essence from a large gathering, the Heart-Eater weaves herself into the mob 
and effectively vanishes, unable to be picked out of the people surrounding her.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll Appearance + (Socialize or Stealth) against difficulty 5. Until the 
Exalt moves out of the crowd she’s hiding in, or the group disperses, it’s impossible to 
specifically notice the Exalt so long as she’s not doing anything brazenly attention-grabbing like 
attacking people or waving a sword around. The eye slides right off of her without noticing 
anything unusual or suspicious, even if the observer is watching for her specifically, or was 
following her at the time she activated the Charm. This Charm offers no concealment if the Exalt 
is completely alone, or with only a handful of other people around.
Milieu-Blending Camouflage (•)
Heart-Eaters know that safety and not being picked out from a crowd are one and the same. 
Stranded in a place or scene where she doesn’t fit in, the Exalt weaves a modest veil of illusion 
that makes her seem a part of the local scene.
System: The Heart-Eater may spend 1 Mote to cloak herself in a modest illusion for the rest of 
the scene. Wherever she is, she looks and sounds like she fits in. This can modify her apparent 
age, ethnicity, clothing, accent, and in extreme cases gender, and will even unconsciously pepper 
her speech with local or in-scene idioms, though she doesn’t gain the ability to speak or 
understand any new languages.
Rare Flower Revelation (•)
Upon being found out during a failed attempt at hiding herself, sneaking about, or doing 
something underhanded, the Heart-Eater strikes in the moment of her discoverer’s surprise, 
lancing through to pierce his heart with the concentrated force of her desirability.
System: After failing at a Stealth or Larceny attempt, the Heart-Eater may reflexively pay 1 
Mote. The individual who caught her must then make a reflexive Wits + Awareness roll against 
difficulty 9. Failure causes him to, in the midst of the shocking discovery of her presence or 
duplicity, realize that she is someone he has waited all his life to find. He is forced to gain a 
positive temporary Intimacy of some kind toward her, with a context decided by the target’s 
player, ranging from bemused camaraderie to romantic infatuation. This Intimacy remains until 
the end of the current story.
Dazzling Auroral Haze (••)
The Heart-Eater feeds Essence into her anima, expanding it into a blinding, kaleidoscopic fog 
that transforms her surroundings into a bright supernatural haze in which she might move about 
undetected.
System: The Exalt spends 2 Motes and makes an Appearance + Stealth roll against difficulty 6. 
Her anima manifests and fills an area up to three zones around her, centered on the Heart-Eater. 
Attempting to pinpoint her location within the moving, churning glare requires a Perception + 
Awareness roll against difficulty (5 + Heart-Eater’s Essence, maximum 9) that must garner more 
successes than she did on this Charm’s activation roll. A failure means that character treats her as 
invisible, with results detailed on page XX.
Dazzling Auroral Haze lasts for as long as the Heart-Eater’s anima remains manifest. Its center 
moves with her. As such, it’s a powerful Charm, but one that draws an enormous amount of 
unwanted attention.
Going to Ground (••)
The Heart-Eater may blend her Essence into a surface or item, sinking into a wall, floor, tree, or 
at least person-sized object and hiding perfectly within. She remains aware of her surroundings 
while immersed in her hiding place.
System: Spend 1 Mote to merge with an object or surface, which must be at least as large as the 
character. Any serious disruption to the Exalt’s hiding place (cutting down a tree, smashing a 
wall) ejects her, and she suffers a –2 penalty to her actions for a minute afterwards due to 
disorientation. Otherwise, she may voluntarily emerge from hiding whenever she likes. The 
Exalt gains 1 Limit upon using this Charm for the first time in a session, as she is swept by a 
deep sense of the world’s bristling animosity and revulsion at her joining with it.
If used within the Heart-Eater’s Awakened Essence Lair, this Charm doesn’t cause Limit gain.
Anima-Drowning Panic (•••)
A Heart-Eater’s anima is one of the most gorgeous displays to be found in the natural or 
supernatural world: a gently shimmering curtain of constantly evolving colors, working through 
all the hues of night, the vibrant shades of electricity, the greens and blues of the rolling deeps. It 
is also a betrayal, signaling her presence to whoever or whatever waits out there to kill her. And 
so, with a panicked effort, the Heart-Eater may escape from the light that wells up from her soul.
System: The Exalt may reflexively gain 1 Limit to smother her anima display, or 2 Limit to pass 
her anima to someone else, causing them to become the source for its radiance. If she sends her 
anima to another character, it only stays there until it goes out naturally, or until the Heart-Eater 
spends Motes again, at which point it will return to her if still visible.
This Charm can prematurely cancel Dazzling Auroral Haze, or even pass its benefits over to 
someone else.
Drawn Into Darkness (•••)
The Heart-Eater may drag her victims away into the shadows, never to be seen again.
System: The Exalt may reflexively spend 1 Mote when launching an unexpected attack against a 
target, ensuring that her ambush makes no noise, prevents her target from making noise, and 
alerts no-one who was not directly observing the victim at the moment of the attack. So long as 
she continues spending 1 Mote at the beginning of each subsequent turn, and the victim cannot 
get to a different zone, the attack remains occluded: nobody can notice it is happening. If she 
kills her target or renders him unconscious, she may spend 1 final Mote to cause herself and the 
body to return to the shadows, underbrush, or some other form of concealment, where she can 
send her victim back to her Lair or simply cram him into some odd corner where finding him 
requires five cumulative successes on an extended difficulty 9 Investigation roll.