General Infernal Charms
The following Charms count as Key Charms for all Infernals.
Key to the Kingdom: (Ability) (•)
By feeding raw infernal Essence into any endeavor, the Demon Prince may perform feats far 
beyond mortal limits.
System: Select one Ability when purchasing this Charm. At any time, the player may reflexively 
spend 1 Mote to add (the Attribute being rolled + the Ability in question) dice to all rolls using 
this Ability for (Essence rating + 1) rounds in combat, or minutes outside of combat.
This Charm can be repurchased to unlock additional Abilities, but Motes must be spent to add 
dice to each Ability separately. Infernals begin play with all versions of Key to the Kingdom
which correspond to their Key and Favored Abilities.
Terrestrial Circle Sorcery (•)
The Infernal has been initiated into the practice of sorcery. She can cast Terrestrial Circle spells 
and enact sorcerous workings.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
Celestial Circle Sorcery (••)
The Infernal has been initiated into the mighty workings of the Celestial Circle of sorcery. She 
can cast Celestial Circle spells.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
An Infernal must have Essence 3+ to purchase this Charm.
The King and the Kingdom: The Thousand and First Hell (•••)
The Infernal shapes her heart, soul, and Essence into the shape of a realm of her devising, 
featuring whatever oddities of geography or natural law suit her nature: a personal and 
magnificent Hell all her own.
System: The Infernal crafts a new Hell-realm within her own Exaltation. By meditating in
specific circumstances selected while learning this Charm (such as in perfect darkness, while 
covered in blood, or to the sound of screams) and making a Wits + Occult roll against a difficulty 
of her own Willpower (her ego acts as a barrier which guards the Kingdom), she may disappear 
into her Kingdom for up to five days, making it impossible to find her. She can linger no longer, 
however, and must spend at least that much time in reality before visiting again. Spending five 
full days within the Kingdom resets the difficulty and cost of her Shintai transformation as 
though a new story had begun.
By paying 2 Motes while crossing over into her inner landscape, the Infernal may also bring up 
to a score of willing, restrained, or unconscious individuals along with her. Visitors to the 
Kingdom may stay for as long as they wish (indeed, they may even become permanent 
residents), and are free to depart whenever they desire… so long as they are able to walk to the 
border of the realm. While the Kingdom must be composed of geography which makes this 
possible, nothing stops the Infernal from importing soldiers to man guard posts, or adorning the 
realm with prisons, natural hazards, and the like.
While within her personal Hell, the duration of the Infernal’s Shintai form becomes indefinite 
rather than scene-length: she may wear it until she chooses to dismiss it, or until it is destroyed.
Upon learning the King and the Kingdom, any Charm the Infernal knows which consigns a being 
to Hell may instead be used to entrap them in the Infernal’s Kingdom.
The Infernal must have an Essence rating of at least 3 to purchase this Charm. Rules for 
creating the Kingdom can be found on pages XX-XX.
Signature Effect: When the Infernal dons her Shintai form, and while that form persists, the 
world around her within (Essence x 500) yards warps and twists, gaining many of the 
characteristics of her Kingdom (though not, alas, unlimited Shintai duration). Any time the 
Infernal uses a stunt incorporating the features of her Kingdom, she adds one die to that action.
The Pentacle and the Scepter (•••)
The Infernal spends long hours in meditation on the time before time, upon the moments when 
her patrons first scribed law upon the screaming face of the Wyld, and the strange and pitiless 
mythologies they wrote there. From the scraps of such madness, she may uncover the deeper 
secrets of sorcery.
System: Upon purchasing this Charm, the Infernal lowers the difficulty of all shape sorcery rolls 
by–1.
Solar Circle Sorcery (•••)
The Infernal has grasped the workings of the all-powerful Solar Circle of sorcery. She can cast 
Solar Circle spells.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
An Infernal must have Essence 5+ to purchase this Charm.
Unbound Eschaton Shintai (•••)
Pushing beyond her limits, the Infernal shatters the boundaries of her flesh, her soul, and the 
chains of fate to assume the ruling form of a transcendent devil.
System: After having already donned her Shintai form, the Infernal may trigger a second, more 
radical transformation. This requires the expenditure of 1 Mote, 1 Willpower, and a successful 
Essence roll against difficulty 8. This is reduced to difficulty 7 if the Infernal has at least three 
dots in the Cult background, or difficulty 6 if she has Cult •••••.
Her second-stage transformation builds upon her first, adding an additional +2 bonus to Strength, 
Dexterity, and Stamina, two more –0 health levels, and two more Aspects, which must be chosen 
at the time of this Charm’s purchase. Finally, select a second Signature Charm, which applies to 
both the second-stage transformation and the Infernal’s base Shintai.
Donning the second stage Shintai form once again grants the Infernal a new, undamaged Health 
track. If she is destroyed in her Unbound Eschaton form, she is knocked back into her normal 
form and suffers five automatic levels of unsoakable lethal damage.
The Infernal must have an Essence rating of at least 4+ to purchase this Charm. Succeed or 
fail, she may attempt her second-stage Shintai transformation only once per story.
Charms of the Shadow of All Things
Choosing this category of Charms as a Key category indicates that the Infernal’s soul is 
powerfully tied to the Ebon Dragon.
Cracked Cell Circumvention (•)
Resonance: Larceny
There is no oubliette so deep or dark, no Hell so vast and benighted, that it can hold the Infernal 
back from seeking her freedom.
System: The Infernal permanently reduces the difficulty of all attempts to escape from physical 
restraint or confinement by –3. This Charm applies to physical actions (such as attempts to break 
out of a grapple or pick a lock), social actions (such as to seduce the guard on the Infernal’s cell), 
and mental actions (such as to come up with an escape plan, or determine the weak point in a 
wall).
Signature Effect: While the Infernal wears her Shintai form, all doors, all gates, all portals and 
other means of passage spring open at her approach, destroying their locks if they must in the 
process. No passage is barred to her.
False Springs Beckon (•)
Resonance: Empathy, Performance
The Infernal offers reprieve from the torments of existence. This is a trap, but one her foes may 
willingly step into.
System: The Infernal needs merely extend a hand for her target to understand that she offers 
relief from some ongoing source of misery. The Infernal may deliberately choose the sort of 
relief she offers, or may simply offer relief from whatever most torments the target. Examples of 
valid torments include the pain (and associated wound penalties) of injuries or chronic health 
conditions; a widow’s grief; a man suffering under the curse of the spell: Corrupted Words; a 
Derangement of the mind; or anything else the Storyteller feels is in line with the above 
examples. The Great Curse and similar burdens of the Chosen are beyond this Charm’s power.
If the target accepts the Infernal’s offer, she may sanctify the pact by spending 1 Mote. The 
target immediately ceases to suffer from the relevant torment. This reprieve lasts until for a 
number of weeks equal to the Infernal’s Essence rating, or until the target refuses to do anything 
the Infernal tells him to do, whichever comes first. In no case does this Charm actually fix the 
problem — the target is still wounded, cursed, or deranged — it merely alleviates the symptoms 
for a while.
Gift of Unyielding Misery (•)
Resonance: Empathy, Survival
The Infernal blows into the mouth or ear of another, befouling his dreams with the horrors of life 
in the darkest bowels of Hell. When he awakens from restless nightmares of the Demon City, it 
will be to discover his torment has only begun.
System: The Infernal spends 1 Mote and rolls Manipulation + Survival against a difficulty of the 
target’s Willpower to inflict a curse upon her victim. When he lays down and attempts to rest, 
whatever surface he lays upon feels like frozen earth and razor-sharp stones, and his flesh is 
chilled by the knife-edged winds of the Ebon Dragon’s passage. Sleep is utterly impossible, and 
seeking it a literally Hellish misery. For every full day the target is denied sleep in this fashion, 
he loses one die from all dice pools. This Charm’s effects persist for a number of days equal to 
the Infernal’s successes. If she uses this Charm upon an already-sleeping victim, it has no Mote
cost. The target dreams of being trapped in the Ebon Dragon’s shadow, and regains no 
Willpower upon awakening. Afterwards, the rest of the Charm takes its course normally.
The Infernal can revoke her curse at any time prior to its natural conclusion by reaching into the 
victim’s mouth and drawing out a squirming black butterfly of absolute shadow, then setting it 
free.
Signature Effect: When the Infernal dons her Shintai form, it comes into the world heralded by 
a thousand shadow butterflies. The dust of their wings corrupts the sleep of everyone who 
witnesses the Infernal’s transformation: make a single Manipulation + Survival roll against the 
highest Willpower rating present to affect all witnesses. If the Infernal knows The King and the 
Kingdom: the Thousand and First Hell, then her victims may be haunted by visions of being 
hunted through the Infernal’s own personal Hell rather than tormented by a vast shadow falling 
across Malfeas.
Golden Years Tarnished Black (•)
Resonance: Empathy
For those lost in the dark there is, at least, always the refuge of happier times and brighter 
memories. The Infernal can deny even this comfort, poisoning such memories with the darkness 
of her dread Essence.
System: The Infernal reminds her target of a happy memory (“Do you remember your wedding 
day?”), then rolls Manipulation + Empathy against a difficulty of the victim’s Willpower.
Success taints and tarnishes the memory; the good things about it become harder to recall, while 
flaws, problems, and irritations are magnified until the memory becomes a source of pain and 
anger. If the memory is strongly linked to a positive Intimacy, that Intimacy ceases to grant any 
benefits. If the victim spends a number of points of Willpower equal to the Infernal’s Essence 
rating, they may reclaim the joy in a tainted memory, but this also provides the Infernal with a 
perfect copy of the memory in question.
Mocking Murmurs Retort (•)
Resonance: Linguistics
The Infernal mimics the words of another, speaking them a moment later but out of key and with 
a twisted tone. Her mimicry poisons the speaker’s words, making them ring harsh and false in 
the ears of all who hear them. The Infernal needs not speak her mockery audibly, and can 
mumble under her breath if she likes. She only needs to be able to hear the speaker’s words as 
they are uttered, and needs not actually be present where they are spoken; as such, this Charm 
can be used while scrying remotely.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Manipulation + Linguistics against a difficulty of the speaker’s 
Willpower. Success ensures that everyone who hears her words finds them suspicious, 
untrustworthy, and unpleasant.
Signature Effect: While the Infernal wears her Shintai form, everyone in her presence suffers 
from the effects of Mocking Murmurs Retort, as sound itself is bent and deformed by the awful 
gravity of her presence.
Naked Wicked Souls (•)
Resonance: Empathy, Investigation
The Infernal’s stare flays away all dissimulation. Shorn of pretense, she beholds her target at his 
very worst, plucking forth the knowledge of his most shameful moment.
System: The Infernal spends a turn examining her target, and then her player spends 1 Mote and 
rolls Perception + (Empathy or Investigation) against a difficulty of the target’s Willpower. 
Success tells her what deed in all of his history the target is most ashamed of. With three or more 
successes, the Infernal also learns some specific details of the misdeed (names, dates, things she 
might have seen had she been present to witness the act). With five or more successes she may 
even learn details the target himself doesn’t know, such as long-term consequences of his action
which would further compound his guilt.
Sun-Denying Spite (•)
Resonance: Occult, Stealth
Spreading wide her arms, the Infernal breathes eternal darkness into the world around her, 
denying the truth and power of the light. All sources of illumination grow dim and toothless, 
even the sun itself.
System: The Infernal spends 1 Mote and rolls Manipulation + Occult against difficulty 7. The 
quality of all light within (Essence rating x 2) zones becomes watery, muted, and somehow 
unhealthy; weak lights such as small candles or old bulbs may fail entirely. Visibility within this 
oppressive murk is limited to no more than arm’s length, imposing a –2 penalty on all actions 
that depend on sight, although the Infernal and creatures of darkness who enjoy her favor can see 
clearly. Most importantly, night holds sway in the dimmed area; even if it is outdoors on a sunny 
day, the sun has no power to harm or inconvenience any being that normally suffers from the 
sight or touch of it. Hungry ghosts have no difficulty manifesting.
This Charm’s effects persist for one hour per success rolled. If no successes are rolled, it lasts for 
a scene. The Infernal may choose whether the effect’s epicenter is stationary or whether it moves 
with her.
Solar anima flare specifically pushes back this murk, illuminating the zone it occurs in.
Signature Effect: Sun-Denying Spite activates automatically at no cost when the Infernal dons 
her Shintai form, and its effects persist for so long as she remains within the darkened region.
Without Honor, Without Hope (•)
Resonance: Resistance, Survival
The chill of night forever abides within the Infernal’s heart, leaving her inured to all lesser cold 
or discomfort. Indeed, they become a source of strength to her.
System: The Infernal is completely immune to environmental hazards based on freezing cold, 
from arctic nights to raging hailstorms. When she has to soak direct attacks based on ice or 
supernatural cold, she lowers the difficulty of her soak roll by two. Finally, the Infernal adds two 
dice to all rolls while subjected to cold-based environmental hazards from which she is protected 
by this Charm.
Signature Effect: When the Infernal dons her Shintai form, it comes into the world 
accompanied by a howling blizzard. Anyone caught in the storm without sufficient protection 
(such as heavy-weather gear, a ghost’s indifference to freezing to death, or some form of 
protective magic) suffers one level of bashing damage per minute, alongside a –2 penalty to all 
rolls.
Witness to Darkness (•)
Resonance: Awareness
Born of a darkness so deep and profound that it is an eternal torment, the Infernal cannot be 
confounded by mere lack of illumination. She can operate in absolute darkness as though it were 
the noonday sun. However, such profound affinity for darkness stains the Infernal’s soul, making 
her a thing of shadows and deceit ever after.
System: The Infernal can see in the dark. The difficulty of all Manipulation rolls are 
permanently lowered by one, but the all rolls made while in bright light (such as unfiltered 
sunlight on a cloudless day) suffer a –2 penalty.
Bloodless Murk Evasion (••)
Resonance: Athletics
The Infernal yields before the futile aggression of her enemies, dissolving into a cold, bodiless 
darkness and reforming somewhere nearby.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower. The attack fails to strike the Infernal without 
any further dice rolls, and she may teleport to any shadow within (Essence rating) zones. She 
may also simply use Bloodless Murk Evasion to teleport to a shadow in the absence of an attack.
This Charm cannot be used in direct sunlight, nor to avoid any attack enhanced by magic 
designed to strike down creatures of darkness.
A Cold and Lonely World (••)
Resonance: Socialize
With but a touch and an injection of enervating Essence, the Infernal severs an individual from 
her place in the world.
System: The Infernal touches her target, spends 2 Motes, and roll Manipulation + Socialize
against a difficulty of the target’s Willpower. Success curses them for one day per success. The 
target is are alienated from his own identity, from his relationships, and from the shape of his life 
within the world. It’s difficult for him to gain the attention of strangers without doing something 
to anger them — and everyone is now a stranger. Friends, allies, and loved ones do not recognize 
him, and no mundane effort will convince them of his true identity; even if he displays official 
identification, they are likely to think that it stolen or faked. He is not only nobody: he is an 
outsider to all and sundry. If he wishes to use any sort of supernatural power to impose his will 
on another, he must first spend a Willpower point to do so. He likely loses access to several 
Backgrounds while the curse persists.
Night Swallows Secrets (••)
Resonance: Larceny, Stealth
Concentrating her will upon a crime or abhorrent thing, the Infernal infuses it with a little bit of 
the cold, unendurable Essence of the Shadow of All Things. Henceforth, it becomes nearly 
impossible to speak of the cursed subject.
System: The Infernal concentrates upon an upsetting, criminal, or otherwise negative and 
distressing act she witnesses or participates in, or the remnant evidence of that act, and then 
spends 2 Motes. Anyone who wishes to speak of the cursed event or evidence must spend a
Willpower point (representing their discomfort at pushing through the horrors of Hell that assault 
their psyche when they attempt to dwell upon the cursed event) and then succeed at a Willpower 
roll against difficulty 9 to do so. This curse lingers for a year and a day.
Signature Effect: Everything the Infernal does while in her Shintai form is subject to the 
suppression and obscurity of Night Swallows Secrets.
Seeing is Blindness (••)
Resonance: Archery, Awareness, Martial Arts
The Infernal’s attacks trail inky contrails that steal the light from the eyes of her foes.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the next (Essence rating) rounds, the Infernal’s attacks 
are stained with darkness. If such an attack strikes an opponent, whether or not it inflicts damage, 
the target is blinded for the rest of the scene: a cloud of liquid darkness spreads across his eyes. 
See page XX for blindness rules.
Signature Effect: Anyone who gazes upon the Infernal while in her Shintai form must make a 
Willpower roll (difficulty 8) or be struck temporarily blind, as though afflicted by Seeing is 
Blindness. This roll needs only be made once per transformation. Attempting to target the 
Infernal with attacks without looking at her imposes a –2 penalty on close-range attacks, or –3
for ranged attacks.
Shadow Spite Curse (••)
Resonance: Larceny
With a dismissive gesture, the Infernal befouls her target’s efforts with the darkness and soulbiting chill of eternal night.
System: (Essence rating) times per scene, the Infernal may respond to another character 
declaring an action by making a reflexive Willpower roll against difficulty 7. For each success 
she rolls, her target loses one die from whatever action they’re attempting.
Signature Effect: While she wears her Shintai form, the world around the Infernal is fractured 
into a jagged landscape of tortured and bleeding Essence, where all actions taken to oppose her 
suffer a –1 penalty.
Ultimate Darkness Internalization (••)
Resonance: Occult
The Infernal claps her hands, surrenders herself utterly to the chill void of the first and original
darkness, and lets it transport her to the realm of the unhappy dead.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll Manipulation + Occult against difficulty 9. Success transports 
the character into the Underworld. By accepting one level of unsoakable bashing damage per 
ally, the Infernal can also draw other willing characters into the Underworld with her. This 
Charm may also be used in reverse to return to Creation. It does not function while in Hell or any 
other realm than Creation.
Uncaring Ice-Soul Redoubt (••)
Resonance: Resistance
Crossing her arms across her chest, the Infernal either becomes an invulnerable statue of black 
stone, or else is encased in unbreakable ice.
System: The Infernal takes a moment to align her flesh and Essence with the eternal darkness of 
Hell. Spend 2 Motes and roll Willpower against difficulty 8. Success immobilizes the Infernal
and renders her indestructible for one hour or until she reflexively abandons Uncaring Ice-Soul 
Redoubt. While merged with the Essence of the Shadow of All Things, she cannot take any 
voluntary actions, including deliberate thought or planning, and is completely immune to all 
damage of any kind. She cannot drown, suffocate, or otherwise suffer any physical harm of any 
kind. If the Infernal wishes to extend her merger with the darkness beyond the first hour, she 
must pay 1 Willpower point at the beginning of each additional hour.
This Charm doesn’t protect the Infernal from attacks on her mind or spirit, such as possession by 
a ghost, a spirit attempting to control her mind, or even an ordinary person attempting to talk her 
into relinquishing this Charm to act upon some pressing concern.
Signature Effect: When Uncaring Ice-Soul Redoubt ends by running out the full duration of the 
Charm rather than being voluntarily dismissed prematurely, the Infernal may emerge from her 
frozen chrysalis wearing her Shintai form, without the need of a Mote or Willpower expenditure 
or a dice roll.
Black Mirror Incarnation (•••)
Resonance: Larceny, Performance, Socialize, Stealth
The Infernal breathes upon the black mirror of her heart, and becomes someone else. 
System: The Infernal spends 1 Mote, spends a moment concentrating, and dons a perfect illusion 
which causes her to appear to be someone else. This can be either a real person, or a fictitious 
individual of the Infernal’s devising. This illusion fools all five senses. Deduction may reveal the 
Infernal for an impostor, but imperfections in the disguise itself never will. The illusion persists 
until the Infernal reflexively dismisses it, or until her anima flares.
Incarnate Shadow Insinuation (•••)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts, Melee
Freezing tendrils of absolute midnight writhe up from the Infernal’s shadow, anchoring 
themselves somewhere on her body. They strike down those who draw near with sinuous, bonechilling strikes.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. At the end of the round, after all other characters have acted, 
roll an extra (Strength or Dexterity) + (Brawl or Martial Arts) attack with base damage 5B
against a single opponent in the same zone. This Charm persists for the Infernal’s (Essence 
rating) in rounds.
Signature Effect: The Infernal’s Shintai writhes with deadly, lashing shadows. Incarnate 
Shadow Insinuation may be activated once during the Shintai for 0 Motes, and inflicts lethal 
rather than bashing damage.
Inner Devils Unchained (•••)
Resonance: Empathy, Presence
Monsters lurk in every heart. Empowering a person’s inner darkness, the Infernal makes that 
monster real. She must approach a mortal and breathe into his mouth to use this Charm. Her 
victim’s shadow twists and distorts, becoming a demon before climbing into the target’s flesh 
and inflicting a brief, agonizing transformation.
System: Spend 3 Motes while within kissing distance of the target. Over the course of a few 
minutes of indescribably painful transformation, the Charm’s victim becomes a creature of 
darkness. He gains a number of Uncanny dots equal to the Infernal’s Essence rating, the 
particular Aspects chosen by the Infernal but always themed toward darkness, cold, and 
deception. The Infernal may reclaim her gift of inner darkness, making the monster human again, 
but this inflicts a number of levels of aggravated damage equal to (7 – the Motes the Exalt opts 
to spend undoing her curse).
Life-Denying Curse (•••)
Resonance: Brawl, Medicine, Thrown
The Infernal blesses her enemies with futility, denying them the ability to recover from whatever 
torments she chooses to inflict upon them.
System: The Infernal reflexively spends 1 Mote upon inflicting damage to an enemy. For one 
day per level of damage inflicted, the target is incapable of healing any damage or removing any 
inflicted curses, mutilations, Derangements, or other such effects. For example, if afflicted with 
Golden Years Tarnished Black, she could not spend Willpower during this Charm’s effect to 
reclaim the joy in her memories. Anyone killed while under the effects of this Charm finds their 
soul immediately banished to a specially constructed black oubliette beneath the Conventicle 
Malfeasant where nothing exists but emptiness and chilling cold, and from which Lethe cannot 
be reached. Condemning an Essence-user in this fashion “resets” the Infernal’s Shintai 
transformation as though a new story had begun, so long as that being isn’t a creature of 
darkness.
Signature Effect: The cost of Life-Denying Curse drops to 0 Motes while the Infernal wears her 
Shintai form.