General Liminal Charms
The following Charms count as Aspect Charms for all Liminals.
Excellence of the Black Earth: (Ability) (•)
By manipulating the balance of Essence within herself, the Liminal may force her body and mind 
beyond their normal limits.
System: Select one Attribute when purchasing this Charm. At any time, the player may 
reflexively spend 1 Mote to add (the Attribute being rolled) in dice to all rolls using that 
Attribute for (Essence rating + 1) rounds in combat, or minutes outside of combat. During anima 
flare, (Attribute + Essence) dice are added instead.
This Charm can be repurchased to unlock additional Attributes, but Essence must be spent to add 
dice to each Attribute separately. Liminals begin play with all versions of Excellence of the 
Black Earth which correspond to their Aspect and Favored Attributes.
Blood Charms
The Binding of Disparities (•)
Resonance: Charisma, Perception
The Liminal instinctively aligns her Essence with whosoever she is attempting to understand, 
helping her to fit in with the world around her. However, this ease makes the rare occasions on 
which she utterly misjudges others all the more painful to her.
System: The character permanently reduces the difficulty of all Empathy rolls by two. 
Unfortunately, botches on Empathy rolls now always inflict three points of Limit. This Charm 
cannot provide any benefit while the Liminal has no lifeline.
Child of Dead Water (•)
Resonance: Appearance
The Liminal suffuses her entire being with blood, granting her affinity with and protection from 
other liquids. When moving through the water, a faint cloud of blood billows out to surround her, 
pushed out of her very pores by her exertions.
System: Spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, the character can breathe underwater and swim 
without complex movement. Alternately, rather than paying a Mote, the Liminal may activate 
this Charm by casting away something she owns: a possession, a body part, or a memory. She 
may also extend this Charm’s benefits to her lifeline while it is active, so long as they are in 
physical contact.
Drowned Essence Conjunction (•)
Resonance: Stamina, Wits
The Liminal attunes her blood to the rivers of dissolving memory that are the waterways of the 
Underworld. Should she plunge into those dark waters, she becomes one with them, moving 
along as surely as any other bit of flotsam, and emerging with newfound wisdom.
System: The Liminal reduces the difficulty to navigate along watercourses or across the sea 
using Survival or Sail by one. By spending 1 Mote, she becomes completely immune to damage 
from any form of liquid for the rest of the scene, including the waters of oblivion. If she 
immerses herself in the waters of the Underworld with this Charm active, she may make a Wits + 
Investigation roll to consult the collective memories of everyone who has ever died to help her 
answer a particular question. The more obscure the answer she seeks, the higher the difficulty. 
Success doesn’t necessarily grant her the answer to her question… but it does ensure that she 
emerges from the dead waters with a new memory, taken from someone who died, which should 
at least help point the way to an answer. She doesn’t inherently know whose memory she gains.
This function doesn’t work during immersion in oblivion’s waters, which devour rather than 
transmit memory.
Oath-Mingling Signatory (•)
Resonance: Charisma
The Liminal may act as the binding medium of a blood-pact. By witnessing an oath made by two 
or more individuals, and drinking at least a drop of the blood of each individual involved, the 
Exalt forges a living trust in her Essence. Woe to any who should break such an oath.
System: Spend 1 Mote to bind the witnessed oath. Afterwards, whenever any signatory violates 
the sanctified oath, the Liminal immediately becomes aware of their betrayal, and learns a secret 
about them of the Storyteller’s choosing. Henceforth, each time the Liminal encounters the 
oathbreaker, she gains 1 Mote (which may take her above her normal Mote pool maximum). 
This Mote will dissipate if not used by the end of the scene, and if spent, must be used to punish 
the oathbreaker in some way.
Seep Like Blood (•)
Resonance: Dexterity, Wits
The Liminal smoothly extricates herself from danger with a smile and a faint scent of lingering 
iron.
System: (Essence rating) times per battle, the Liminal may reflexively move to a different zone 
despite having been attacked before her turn.
Slick Crimson Acquisition (•)
Resonance: Dexterity, Manipulation
A sticky webwork of blood erupts from the Liminal’s hand, drawing a far-away object into her 
grasp.
System: Once per turn, the Exalt may reflexively pull an object into her hand, which can weigh 
no more than 20 pounds, must be no more than one zone away, and cannot be held or carried by 
another character. Alternately, the Liminal can reflexively suffer one level of unsoakable bashing 
damage either to use this Charm more than once per turn, or to steal from or disarm another 
character with it, requiring a contested roll of Dexterity + (Athletics or Larceny) against the 
target’s Strength + (Melee or Athletics, as appropriate), both at difficulty 6.
Surrender in Scarlet (•)
Resonance: Dexterity, Appearance, Wits
The Liminal may liquefy her bones, temporarily dispersing them into her bloodstream so that her 
body becomes a flexible, slithering mass capable of squeezing through any opening no larger 
than one of her eyes.
System: Spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For the rest of the scene, the Liminal may 
automatically escape from grapples (such as those imposed by Dragon Coil Technique), ropes, 
handcuffs, and similar restraints if she gives up her action for the turn to concentrate on escaping. 
She can also slowly squeeze herself through spaces that should be far too small to admit her as a 
form of complex movement.
Vein and Vessel Purgation (•)
Resonance: Appearance, Wits
The Liminal exerts her Essence to the purpose of absolute control over her own blood.
System: By spending 1 Mote and spending a moment in concentration, the Exalt can transform 
her blood into a transcendentally deadly poison for the rest of the scene. Any being which drinks 
her blood must immediately attempt to soak three levels of lethal damage. Alternately, she may
reflexively spend 1 Mote or burn away one memory to purge any curse that has been laid upon 
her blood and render her blood sacrosanct against such attacks for the rest of the scene.
Blood Calls to Blood Congelation (••)
Resonance: Manipulation, Perception
The Liminal can immediately intuit the fluid social dynamics of any situation she finds herself 
in, mapping a web of links between the individuals present.
System: The Liminal can analyze the relationship between any two characters by spending a 
moment observing them, then spending 1 Mote and rolling Perception + Socialize against 
difficulty 8. Even so much as one success not only reveals whether the two characters know one 
another, but also the depth and nature of that relationship (“They’re illicit lovers, desperate to 
appear as political rivals”). If one of the individuals being analyzed is the Liminal’s lifeline, then 
this Charm costs no Motes, but she cannot use it to evaluate her lifeline’s relationship with 
herself.
Houses Beneath the Sea (••)
Resonance: Stamina, Appearance, Intelligence
The Liminal’s breath and blood moves in tidal response to that of the most important person in 
her world: her maker, or her lifeline. Should the worst befall them — should they be sent to the 
dark river that runs in only one direction for all save the Black Earth Children — she may still 
her breath, still her blood, and make the trip on their behalf.
System: The Liminal instinctively knows when her maker or lifeline are in immediate mortal 
danger, this awareness manifesting itself as a sense of rising but indistinct panic. Likewise, she 
knows with inarguable certainty if they are slain, and may reflexively make the decision to 
sacrifice herself on their behalf. If she does so, then wherever her maker or lifeline may be, they 
do not die: instead, they stabilize at Incapacitated, appearing dead to all outward examination 
until the end of the current scene, at which point the signs of life may be detected again. If their 
body is in immediate danger, serendipity will attempt to intervene to remove them from harm’s 
way if possible, but in the face of determined attempts at absolute destruction or in wholly 
inescapable circumstances, if their body continues to suffer damage after the Liminal triggers 
this Charm, it offers no further direct protection, and they will perish as normal.
The Liminal, by contrast, falls to the ground as all of the blood runs out of her body, immediately 
suffering sufficient lethal damage to strike her dead as she passes into death in place of her 
maker or lifeline. She may attempt to return from this death later, in the usual fashion.
Needful Lips Parted (••)
Resonance: Appearance, Perception
Attuning her Essence the tenor of another’s desire, the Liminal learns the innermost yearning of 
another by experiencing it for herself.
System: After at least a minute of social interaction with someone, spend 2 Motes and roll 
Perception + Empathy against a difficulty of the target’s Willpower. Success grants the Liminal a 
temporary Intimacy, lasting for 24 hours, which mimics the target’s most heartfelt desire. The 
character retains the knowledge of what the target desires even after she stops feeling it herself.
Prey-Predator Sublimation (••)
Resonance: Perception
The vengeance of the Liminal is slow but certain, drawing her inexorably across road and river 
and even the skin of worlds to find her quarry.
System: This Charm may be activated when the Liminal touches or tastes another character’s 
blood, allowing her to absorb the spilled vital fluid into her body. She may track her sublimated 
quarry perfectly afterwards for up to a year and a day: Blood calls to blood, leading her by 
serendipity and instinct to a trail that will bring her to the one she seeks.
By paying 1 Mote, the Liminal may sublimate other bodily fluids in place of blood, with the 
same results.
Red-Clouded Needle Suffusion (••)
Resonance: Dexterity, Charisma
With a mere touch, the Liminal may adjust the balance of another’s chemistry and Essence, 
producing a powerful addiction.
System: The Liminal touches the target, spends 2 Motes, and rolls Dexterity + (Medicine or 
Larceny) against a difficulty of the target’s Willpower. Success lets her create an addiction to 
whatever she pleases: potentially a chemical narcotic, but just as easily to her own presence, a 
location, or an act. Whenever presented with a clear opportunity to indulge this addiction, the 
target must succeed at a Willpower roll (difficulty 7) to resist. This addiction lasts for a number 
of weeks equal to the Exalt’s Essence rating.
A Red Door (••)
Resonance: Perception, Wits
The Liminal forces beads of blood up to the surface of her hand as she runs it along the frame of 
a doorway or window, creating a ward of warning against intrusion. She knows when someone 
next passes through the marked portal, and may even glean some insights about them.
System: Spend a turn marking a portal and either spend 1 Mote or suffer one level of unsoakable 
bashing damage to establish the ward. It lasts for the Liminal’s (Essence rating) days. When 
someone next passes through, the Liminal becomes immediately aware of the intrusion and may 
reflexively roll Perception + Survival against difficulty 7 to try to learn about the intruder. A 
single success will grant her a brief glimpse of their appearance, while three or more will tell her 
their current intention, and five or more allows her perfect ongoing awareness of their position 
for the next (Essence rating) minutes.
Shroud-Crossing Liquefaction (••)
Resonance: Strength, Charisma, Intelligence
Aligning her Essence with the dead waters, the Liminal uses water as a medium to transport 
herself into the Underworld.
System: Spend 1 Mote when the Liminal completely submerges herself in water, and roll 
Strength + Occult against difficulty 8. Success produces a powerful current that drags the 
Liminal down and then tosses her back up, emerging from the waters of one of the Underworld’s 
many rivers. If she takes hold of other characters and spends 2 extra Motes, she may also carry 
up to (higher of Charisma or Intelligence) other characters across with her. This Charm may also 
be used in reverse to return to Creation. A botch causes the Liminal to surface in a current of 
oblivion.
Writhing Blood Lash (••)
Resonance: Dexterity, Appearance
The Liminal animates her own blood with Essence, transforming it into a deadly razor-edged 
whip.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to extend the lash from the character’s palm, which splits 
open to disgorge a hissing streamer of scarlet blood held together by crackling Essence.
Alternately, the cost of this Charm drops to 0 Motes if the Liminal has already suffered a lethal 
or aggravated wound during the scene, or by voluntarily suffering a level of lethal damage to 
activate it. The blood lash can strike opponents up to one zone away, and inflicts a base damage 
of 7L, or 7A against the Unquiet.
Blood Lash Counterstroke (•••)
Resonance: Stamina
Upon suffering harm, the Liminal expels her blood in a high-pressure cutting arc as a 
counterattack.
System: Spend 1 Mote reflexively to activate this Charm. Until the end of the current round, the 
Exalt reflexively counterattacks in response to every attack that inflicts lethal or aggravated 
damage to her: For every 1 rolled on such attacks launched by an enemy in the same zone, the 
attacker must soak two levels of lethal damage after the attack resolves. This Charm can’t deal 
out more damage in response to an attack than the Liminal’s Stamina rating.
Flame and Shadow Solution (•••)
Resonance: Dexterity
Though it may appear her foes have struck the Liminal down, she fades away from certain 
destruction at the last moment in a crimson blur, leaving behind only faint streaks of blood.
System: If an attack directed at the Liminal generates fewer successes than her Dexterity rating, 
she increases her soak against it by +2 dice.
Hot-Blooded Calcination (•••)
Resonance: Manipulation
With but a moment’s touch, the Liminal rebalances someone else’s Essence and tempers. Fear, 
hate, and envy are the passions at her command, and if the target is feeling any of the three, she 
may transform it into one of the other two as she desires.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll Manipulation + Presence against a difficulty of the target’s 
Willpower. If the roll succeeds, she may transform the targeted passion into one of the other two 
at an equal degree of intensity. See page XX for the effects of intense emotions.
Red Fever Dreaming (•••)
Resonance: Manipulation, Perception
The Liminal spends a moment attuning her Essence to nearby emanations of an intense passion 
of her choosing: fear, hatred, or envy. Those in the grip of the attuned passion begin to drip small 
but visible amounts of blood, generally from the nose, tear ducts, or ears, so long as the Exalt 
remains nearby.
System: Spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, those experiencing the attuned passion present 
appropriate stigmata while within (Essence rating) zones of the Exalt. Alternately, the Exalt may 
pay 0 Motes and simply scent the passion flowing out of individuals within range, creating no 
outward manifestation upon their bodies, but doing so causes her to suffer one level of 
unsoakable lethal damage as her inward-turned Essence causes internal bleeding within her own 
body.
Red River Dancing (•••)
Resonance: Dexterity
The Liminal matches her surging Essence to the aggression of her enemies, moving in perfect 
synchronicity with their violence. Their blows skim her skin and outline her graceful 
movements, but do not find purchase.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For the next (1 + Essence rating) 
rounds, the Liminal’s Dodge value is increased by +2. If this would raise her Defense above 9, 
her attackers are forced to discard one success from their attacks.
If the Liminal successfully dodges an attack while this Charm is active, then she briefly matches 
her movements to those of that opponent. She automatically evades all of his further attacks until 
the end of the round.
Two Bodies Breathe as One (•••)
Resonance: Manipulation, Appearance
The Liminal brings her body into perfect alignment with the blood and flesh of another: this may 
be accomplished with an entire scene of intimate conversation, by sleeping beside them for six 
hours, or through sexual congress. Afterwards, she may mend their ills or make them bow to her 
will.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Appearance + Empathy against a difficulty of the target’s 
Willpower rating. Henceforth they are enthralled to the point of servitude by the Liminal, 
desperately addicted to her presence. This Charm can be resisted for a scene by spending 1 point 
of Willpower, and once a number of Willpower points have been spent equal to the successes the 
Liminal rolled when activating Two Bodies Breathe as One, its power comes to an end.
Alternately, the Liminal may use her successes to inflict levels of unsoakable bashing damage 
upon herself. She may “spend” this damage to the target’s benefit: one bashing damage healed 
per damage taken, one lethal damage healed per two damage taken, or one Willpower point 
restored per damage taken (up to a maximum of the Liminal’s current Willpower points or the 
target’s permanent Willpower rating, whichever is lower). The Liminal may also heal one level 
of aggravated damage per three damage taken, but may only heal such drastic wounds if the one 
she is treating is her lifeline.
Unlimited Murder Works (•••)
Resonance: Dexterity, Wits
The Liminal’s anima momentarily erupts into a great obscuring fog, through which she flickers 
as a series of disjointed afterimages, each caught in a freeze-frame of indescribable violence. A 
moment later the phantasmal display collapses and the Exalt stands still and singular once more, 
but the corpses she has left behind are very real.
System: Reflexively spend 2 Motes after completing an attack. The Liminal may take a second 
turn after all other characters have acted, using it to launch another attack.
Alternately, spend 1 Mote and use the Liminal’s turn to launch an attack against a battle group. 
The difficulty of this attack is lowered by two, and if successful, it adds (rating of Attribute used 
to attack + Essence) to its base damage.
Breath Charms
Body-Interrogating Epiphany (•)
Resonance: Dexterity, Appearance, Intelligence
When the Liminal adds new flesh to her body, she gains with it some of the memories of its 
previous owner.
System: Whenever the character adds new parts to her body, her player must roll Intelligence + 
Occult at difficulty 6. The number and clarity of the memories gained depend on the number of 
successes:
1 success: The Liminal gains a single memory of the Storyteller’s choosing.
2 successes: The Liminal gains a handful of scattered, disconnected memories.
3 successes: The Liminal gains a vague sense of the donor’s identity, including their name: who 
they were, what their life was like. Details remain few and far between, though.
4 successes: The Liminal knows a great deal about the person her new body part came from, 
including many of their secrets and a fair amount of detail about major incidents in their life.
5+ successes: The Liminal can recall the memories of whoever she took her new flesh from as 
well as the original owner did.
Face in the Crowd Dissolution (•)
Resonance: Manipulation, Appearance, Perception
Relaxing her grip on her sense of self, the Liminal becomes an empty body, moving with the 
mass of people around her. She becomes literally impossible to recognize, so long as she moves 
with the crowd.
System: Upon reflexively activating this Charm, the Liminal disappears into any group of people 
numbering half a dozen or more. Nothing distinguishing can be noted about her, regardless of 
her appearance: even if she’s stark naked and covered in blood, she seems completely 
unremarkable. People seeking her, description in hand, will pass on by without the slightest 
glimmer of recognition, even if she’s placed in a lineup and carefully examined. Only by 
separating the Liminal from the crowd can she be identified once again. Using this Charm 
afflicts the Exalt with 1 Limit at the end of the scene. It cannot hide her from her lifeline.
Fetter-Splitting Strike (•)
Resonance: Intelligence
When the Liminal destroys a ghost through violence, sending it spiraling back into the depths of 
the Underworld, she may enact this Charm to destroy the links it has forged to the living world 
which allow it to come up from the depths of the Underworld and trouble the lighted lands.
System: When the Liminal destroys a ghost, her player can opt to roll Intelligence + Occult 
(difficulty 6). Success destroys the ghost’s connection to her Fetters. If used on a hungry ghost, 
this destroys its connection to its corpse, rendering it permanently incapable of returning from 
the Underworld. The Liminal also gains the permanent ability to strike and damage intangible 
beings so long as she can perceive them.
Ghost Lantern Ceration (•)
Resonance: Appearance, Perception
Focusing momentarily upon a particular passion, the Exalt flares her Essence, revealing and 
rendering vulnerable all creatures bound to that emotion.
System: Select a particular emotion (hate, love, jealousy, rage, and so on) and spend 1 Mote. For 
the rest of the scene, the Liminal radiates an aura that stretches out (Essence rating) zones around 
her. Any ghost with an Intimacy matching the selected emotion becomes visible and tangible, 
limned in blue-white flames, so long as they remain within the aura. Other spirits representing 
the emotion are similarly revealed.
Gift of False Life (•)
Resonance: Dexterity, Charisma, Wits
The Liminal invests her breath into an inanimate object, granting it something akin to life and 
impelling it to obey her will.
System: Spend 1 Mote to animate an object for the rest of the scene. Animate objects can move 
and twist within reason: a chair could gallop, a door slam, a suit of armor jump up and fight. 
Animated objects act with Expertise pools equal to three times the Exalt’s Essence (maximum of 
10) and Utility pools of 2. They have Aptitudes for “doing chores,” “obeying instructions,” and 
“fighting to protect the master,” along with anything else their form might suggest (such as 
“playing Gateway” for an animated Gateway board). Large objects also have an Aptitude for 
“feats of strength.” Objects have a base damage of 0-1, and 0-2 soak, depending on their 
sturdiness, and can suffer damage equal to the Exalt’s Essence rating before falling inert.
At any point before the end of the scene, the Liminal may touch an animated object and cause it 
to become inanimate once again, reclaiming her invested Mote in the process.
Memory-Embedding Conjunction (•)
Resonance: Appearance, Wits
Carried on her breath, the Liminal may bequeath one of her memories with a kiss.
System: The Liminal breathes into another character’s mouth and spends 1 Mote. That character 
gains a memory of the Exalt’s choosing. The Liminal loses the memory in the process.
Phantom Limb Projection (•)
Resonance: Charisma, Appearance
Though her arm may be cut away or her eyes put out, the Liminal continues unerringly on her 
mission, forming replacements from the breath of the world and the power of her Essence.
System: By spending 1 Mote the Liminal forms replacements for any limbs or organs she may 
be missing until the end of the scene. These phantom body parts are wrought of clouds of anima 
constrained by crackling electricity, and are clearly supernatural.
Pyre-Flame Alembic (•)
Resonance: Stamina, Appearance, Wits
The Liminal condenses her spirit into her mouth or palms, filling them with pale spectral flames. 
She may hurl or spew these flames, using them as a weapon which freezes the living and burns 
the dead.
System: In order to ready this weapon for the rest of the scene, the Liminal either reflexively 
spends 1 Mote or else immolates one of her memories in the furnace of her Essence. Roll 
Dexterity + Thrown to aim attacks made with the pyre-flames. The flames have a range of one 
zone and a base damage of 6L. This damage is aggravated against the Unquiet.
Walking Dead Shell (•)
Resonance: Stamina
The Liminal casts away unnecessary bits of herself, and with them loses her mortal frailties.
System: Upon activating this Charm, spend as many Motes of Essence as the player desires. The 
Liminal may also discard her possessions, parts of her body, and specific memories to pay this 
Charm’s activation cost, with each such loss counting as a Mote. For each Mote or equivalent 
thereof spent, the character gains one of the following benefits for the next 24 hours:
• She no longer experiences penalties for fatigue and exhaustion, and indeed needs neither rest 
nor sleep.
• She no longer experiences penalties for starvation or dehydration, and indeed has no need to eat 
or drink.
• She no longer needs to breathe.
World-Feeding Cibation (•)
Resonance: Strength, Charisma
By breathing into the face of another Exalt or supernatural being, the Liminal may imbue them 
with a fragment of her Essence.
System: Spend a turn breathing into another character’s mouth and spend as many Motes as 
desired. The recipient gains those Motes if they are able.
Afterwards, the recipient is struck by a deep sense of unease, and must choose a reaction as 
though they had failed a Willpower roll after witnessing the Liminal’s Aspect markings for the 
first time.
This Charm’s cost does not count against the Liminal’s Motes-per-round limit.
Air and Essence Sublimation (••)
Resonance: Intelligence, Wits
Flushing her body with the zephyrs of the mind and spirit, the Liminal gains eloquence equal to 
her erudition.
System: The Liminal may activate this Charm by either spending 1 Mote or raising the difficulty 
of all physical rolls by one while it is active. For the rest of the scene, she can substitute her 
Intelligence or Wits in place of any Social Attribute called for in any roll, or in place of her 
Physical Attributes when supporting or defending an Intimacy.
Corpse-Rider Method (••)
Resonance: Dexterity, Manipulation
The Liminal imbues her breath into a corpse, making of it a marionette under her direct control.
System: Spend 1 Mote to animate a corpse for the rest of the scene. The Liminal remains awake 
and aware while piloting the corpse, controlling both bodies simultaneously, and may even use 
this Charm to control multiple corpses at once, but she suffers a penalty equal to (corpses 
controlled x 2) to all of her actions and all of the actions taken by her corpse-puppets. She uses 
the corpse’s physical Attributes, but her own Traits otherwise.
Flesh to Breath Transmutation (••)
Resonance: Appearance
The Liminal disperses her flesh into a substance not entirely real, moving through the world as 
invisible as a ghost. She may be detected only as the faintest distortion, as a slight drop in the 
temperature of a room, or by the fogging of nearby mirrors.
System: Spending 1 Mote renders the Exalt invisible for the rest of the scene. The difficulty of 
all Stealth rolls is lowered by four (to a minimum of 3). See page XX for rules on fighting 
invisible characters.
Ghost-Revealing Aura (••)
Resonance: Strength, Charisma, Intelligence
The Liminal’s anima scrapes against the skin of the world, fragments of power breaking off to 
cling to the spirits of the dead and bringing them briefly into the domain of the living.
System: While the Liminal’s anima flares, all ghosts within (Essence) zones of her become 
visible and tangible to all characters. She may suppress this effect for a scene by spending 1 
Willpower; it is otherwise involuntary.
Somnambulist Imprecation (••)
Resonance: Manipulation
Fixing her gaze upon another, the Liminal sends a fragment of her soul and will to lurk within 
their spirit. Later, when next they sleep, her target will rise unknowing to do as she bids.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Manipulation + Presence against a difficulty of the target’s 
Willpower rating. One or two successes will allow the Liminal to force the sleepwalker to do 
anything that doesn’t seem tremendously unusual or out of character. With three or four 
successes, she can command the target to do anything that doesn’t endanger himself or a loved 
one. With five or more successes, the target will risk his life and the lives of others at the 
Liminal’s command. The target returns to his resting place after completing the Liminal’s 
assigned task, unaware of his midnight sojourn. If he suffers any damage, he wakes up and the 
remainder of the Liminal’s command is lost. This Charm cannot hypnotize a target into harming 
or killing himself, compel him into certain death, or force him to betray his Nature.
Unfortunately, because the Liminal loses a tiny fragment of herself in the course of embedding 
the command, she can remember using this Charm, but cannot remember what she ordered the 
target to do, losing that knowledge as soon as the command is imparted.
Uncanny Outsider Insight (••)
Resonance: Perception
The Exalt takes in the air of the unfamiliar, gleaning insight from estrangement, and plucks a 
stranger’s secrets from the air.
System: After spending a turn concentrating on a stranger — someone the Liminal does not 
know at all, even by reputation — her player may spend 1 Mote and roll Perception + Awareness 
against difficulty 8. She may spend her successes on a one-for-one basis to ask the following 
questions:
• What is that person’s name?
• What is that person’s profession?
• What is that person’s greatest secret?
• Why is that person here?
• Where is that person going?
Clay Shaping Clay Practice (•••)
Resonance: Strength, Charisma
Pouring her Essence into any object which bears human shape and likeness, be it a statue or 
scarecrow, the Liminal awakens the empty vessel and animates it to do her bidding — and 
project her power.
System: The Liminal spends a moment focusing on a human likeness within her line of sight, 
then spends 1 Mote and rolls Charisma + (higher of Craft or Occult) against difficulty 7. Success 
animates the targeted object, grants it the Liminal’s Attributes and Abilities, five –0 health levels 
(which cannot be healed, but can be repaired with Craft actions), and makes it into the Exalt’s 
servant. While this Charm remains in effect, the targeted object is essentially “alive,” capable of 
motion, and obedient to the Liminal’s commands. Moreover, by closing her eyes and 
concentrating, the Liminal may perceive the world through her servant’s “eyes” and “ears,” take 
direct control of it, and even project her Charms into its actions.
The Liminal may have a number of simultaneous servants equal to her Essence rating. Clay 
Shaping Clay Practice’s duration lasts as outlined on the following chart:
Successes Duration
One One scene
Two One day
Three One week
Four One month
Five+ Indefinite
If the Liminal dies while any indefinitely-animated servants created by this Charm endure, then 
each of those simulacra loses their sense of obedience to her and draws off a random assortment 
of her memories as the seed to develop a sense of identity and personality of their own. They 
also gain a copy of her Intimacy for her lifeline.
Dancing Blades Projection (•••)
Resonance: Dexterity, Manipulation
The Liminal’s Essence infests every manner of loose object in her vicinity: stray bricks, 
unattended helmets, rocks, bookends, decorative wall-mounted weaponry, painting frames, 
potted plants. They rise into the air in time with her breath, and then whirl into a devastatingly 
lethal cyclone around her.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the next (Essence rating) minutes, the Liminal adds two 
dice to all soak rolls, increases the difficulty of all ranged attacks against her by +1, and anyone 
who makes a close-range attack against her must soak two levels of lethal damage. Her own 
close-range attacks also add +2 to their base damage.
She may spend a turn concentrating and taking no other action to expand the range of her deadly 
cyclone out to encompass the entire zone she occupies yards, and the severity of the damage it 
inflicts to four levels of lethal damage, delivered at the end of the round. As soon as she takes 
any other action, the vortex shrinks back to its normal size and violence.
Dispersal of Bitter Seasons (•••)
Resonance: Manipulation, Appearance
Filling her lungs with the Essence of the nullity that waits between death and life, the Liminal 
blows into her target’s face, carrying away and scattering their memories.
System: Spend 2 Motes roll and Manipulation + Socialize, resisted by the target’s Willpower 
(both at difficulty 6). The subject’s memories are destroyed, the severity of the loss based on the 
number of successes left after subtracting the result of the opposed Willpower roll:
1 success: The events of a recent scene can be surgically removed.
2 successes: The events of a recent day can be erased.
3 successes: A single pivotal memory in the subject’s life can be destroyed. Alternately, several
weeks of the subject’s recent past can be cast into a fog, from which only the vaguest and 
broadest details can be retrieved.
4 successes: All memories relating to a broad topic can be erased (such as everything to do with 
the target’s wife, or everything he has ever done in service of the Endron Oil company).
5+ successes: The subject can be given broad, sweeping amnesia, leaving him with little idea of 
who he is or where he fits into the world.
Using this Charm upon her lifeline causes the Liminal to gain Limit equal to the successes rolled.
Impelling Breath Cibation (•••)
Resonance: Strength, Manipulation, Wits
The Black Earth Child breathes her Essence into an item or object, bringing it into temporary 
perfect alignment with herself.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to attune an item. Alternately, this Charm may be activated 
by giving up a memory and casting it into the object, where it is lost forever. The difficulty of all 
actions using that object are reduced by one for the rest of the scene, such as attacks made with 
an attuned weapon, Sail rolls made to command an attuned ship, Craft rolls while using an 
attuned tool, or Presence rolls while wearing attuned clothing.
The Limnial may also attune an item to her lifeline, granting that individual the benefits of this 
Charm while using the object, by feeding a memory she shares with her lifeline into the object.
Spirit Displacement Style (•••)
Resonance: Strength, Manipulation
With but a touch and an exhalation, the Liminal pours her mind and spirit into the body of 
another, possessing their flesh and taking it as her own.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Intelligence + Presence, resisted by the target’s Willpower (both 
at difficulty 7). The Liminal may take possession of the target’s body for one hour per success by 
which she beats him. While piloting someone else’s flesh, her own body is left unconscious and 
inert. She knows if it suffers any damage, and may relinquish this Charm to return to her body at 
any time.
When the period of possession ends, both characters make a contested Willpower roll (difficulty 
6). If the Liminal wins, she returns to her body and the victim has only clouded, foggy memories 
of what she made him do. If the victim wins, the Liminal still returns to her body, but the victim 
tears out one of her memories (which one is chosen by the Storyteller); it belongs to him now. 
He also has clear recall of the possession period.
If used to possess the Exalt’s lifeline, Spirit Displacement Style’s Essence cost drops to nothing,
but the Liminal gains 2 Limit when the Charm ends.
Flesh Charms
Anatomy as Eruption Ruse (•)
The Liminal may concentrate a deadly surge of her Essence into a severed or discarded body 
part, causing it to detonate in a destructive burst of Essence, boiling meat, and deadly boneshards.
System: The Liminal must lose some part of her anatomy, either through violence or her own 
deliberate action, and then reflexively spend 1 Mote within an hour of it being separated from 
her. The lost body part immediately explodes, inflicting three levels of lethal damage to all 
characters within the same zone.
Disjointed Anatomy Dissolution (•)
Resonance: Perception, Wits
The Liminal may voluntarily detach parts of her body, which remain under her full and direct 
control.
System: The Exalt can voluntarily detach her head, hands, arms, legs, or any other limbs she 
may have gained, and control them as though they were still attached to her body (she may just 
as easily control involuntarily severed body parts). She can also pluck out one or both of her eyes 
for remote-viewing, which slither about on a nest of optic nerves, including up walls; or pull off 
an ear and leave it somewhere to listen on her behalf. Reattaching a limb or organ removed by 
this Charm is as simple as touching it back to the main mass of the Liminal’s body. If the Exalt is 
forced to abandon a separated body part, it must be manually replaced. The Liminal can also 
abandon her entire body in an extreme emergency so long as her head escapes, but is at the 
mercy of others to affix her head to a new torso.
Febrile Intensity Spirit (•)
Resonance: Charisma
The Exalt’s passion is an infectious thing, taking root in those she addresses.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, reduce the difficulty of all social 
rolls wherein the Liminal is expressing or speaking in support of one of her Intimacies by –3.
Fist-Shattering Strike (•)
Resonance: Strength, Stamina
There are certain natural limitations to the violence of motion the human body is willing to inflict 
on itself. Lightning-struck, a man’s muscles may contract hard enough to shatter most of his 
bones, but he cannot voluntarily summon such a convulsion. The Liminal, defying nature, may 
destroy herself with her violent exertions in order to wreak even greater harm on her foes, 
shattering her fists or even tearing her striking limbs clean off with the force of their impacts.
System: After successfully striking a target with a hand-to-hand attack, the player may 
reflexively mark off as much damage to the Liminal as she wishes. For each point of bashing 
damage marked off, increase the attack’s base damage by +2. For each point of lethal damage 
marked off, increase it by +3.
Marking lethal damage converts an unarmed attack’s damage from bashing to lethal. If two or 
more lethal damage are taken in the course of making this attack, then the Liminal suffers a 
crippling injury as described under Patchwork People on page XX.
Memories Like Rotten Teeth (•)
Resonance: Manipulation
With a sustained touch — an embrace, a lingering hand on the shoulder, a kiss, a strangling grip 
— the Liminal bequeaths a gift: one of her very worst memories. It might be the moment of her 
Exaltation; it might be the violent murder of one of her donor-bodies; it might be the experience 
of being dismembered while awake and alive, and of putting oneself back together afterwards. 
Whatever the choice, the recipient not only now owns the memory, they relive it in every sharp 
particular of physical and mental agony.
System: Spend one full round touching the target, spend 2 Mote, and roll (Charisma or 
Manipulation) + Empathy against a difficulty of the target’s Willpower. Success causes the Exalt 
to lose the selected memory, the target to gain it, and also inflicts a Derangement on the target as 
well. Memories Like Rotten Teeth has no Essence cost if used upon the Liminal’s lifeline, but 
does cause the Exalt to gain 2 Limit.
Ox-Body Technique (•)
Resonance: Stamina
The Liminal’s body continues to hang together long after the point when death should have 
claimed her, keeping her up and fighting.
System: The character permanently gains an additional set of (–1), (–1), (–2), (–2) health levels.
This Charm can be purchased a number of times equal to the character’s Essence rating.
Rage and Rending Attitude (•)
Resonance: Strength
The Liminal’s grip may split flesh and muscle from the bones beneath.
System: The Liminal locks herself in a deadly embrace with an opponent, immobilizing them 
and wrenching apart their joints one by one. By reflexively paying 1 Mote upon landing a 
successful unarmed attack, the Exalt locks herself and her target in place. Unless she voluntarily 
relinquishes the power of this Charm, neither can move from the zone they currently occupy 
until the Liminal has taken another (Stamina rating) turns. The initial attack inflicts lethal 
damage with a bonus to its base damage equal to the Liminal’s Essence rating, as do all 
subsequent unarmed attacks during the duration of Rage and Rending Attitude. While Rage and 
Rending Attitude persists, the Liminal may opt not to roll to attack her target if she desires, 
instead automatically scoring (Essence rating) successes with an unarmed attack on each of her 
turns.
Attacking anyone other than her grappled target immediately ends Rage and Rending Attitude. 
Each time the Liminal is struck by an attack, the duration of Rage and Rending Attitude is cut 
short by one round.
Skin-Outrunning Reach (•)
Resonance: Dexterity
The Liminal may extend any of her limbs, including her neck, to grotesque lengths: launching 
them out like striking serpents, or sending them slithering over ledges or around corners. Her
skin does not extend with the limb, producing the nauseating spectacle of the Exalt’s head or 
hand extending along a dripping thread of stringy viscera and untwisted muscle.
System: The Liminal may reflexively cause any of her limbs, including her neck, to extend up to 
one zone, and they gain a boneless flexibility.
Smiles Like Wax (•)
Resonance: Appearance
Through exercise of Essence, the Liminal may alter her fundamental body-identity, the shape 
that all additions to her flesh attempt to match and mimic. She can also temporarily shift 
particular details of her body’s appearance.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll Appearance + Athletics (difficulty 7). For each success, the 
Liminal may change one feature about her appearance from the following list for (Essence 
rating) days:
• Hair length and/or texture (including body hair).
• Hair color.
• Eye color.
• Skin color, including smoothing out any discrepancies between body parts from disparate 
sources.
• Apparent age.
• Height.
• Build and weight.
• Facial or bodily features (cheekbone structures, shape of chin, presence or absence of scars, 
etc).
• Primary sexual characteristics, assuming a fully male, female, intersex, or androgynous or 
sexless body. Liminals are naturally infertile, and remain so regardless of the body configuration 
enacted by this Charm.
• For only one success, the Liminal may take on the perfect likeness of her lifeline.
The Liminal may spend 1 Willpower to “lock in” any changes and render them permanent, save 
for impersonating her lifeline; that particular transformation is always temporary.
Clambering Horror Pursuit (••)
Resonance: Dexterity
The Liminal’s joints and ligaments crackle and groan under the burden of her sudden hyperflexibility, allowing her to scuttle across the ground, up walls, and even over ceilings with 
nightmarish, inhuman speed, her limbs bending and flexing in ways anatomy never intended.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm for the rest of the scene. The difficulty 
of all actions to run someone down, get somewhere quickly, or jump a difficult gap are lowered 
by two. The Liminal can run across walls or even ceilings. By reflexively suffering one level of 
unsoakable lethal damage when she moves to an adjacent zone, she may move two zones 
instead.
When this Charm ends, its exertions destroy one limb chosen by the Storyteller, necessitating its 
replacement.
Corpse-Body Rigor (••)
Resonance: Stamina
The Liminal loads redundant flesh and organs into her body, making her much more difficult to 
kill, but also straining her outer seeming of humanity.
System: The Liminal affixes additional flesh and organs gathered from corpses (or, possibly, 
from still-living victims: it requires inflicting at least three lethal damage for this Charm to be 
effective) to herself, requiring fifteen minutes of work and a successful Dexterity + (Craft or 
Medicine) roll at difficulty 7. She gains three additional –0 health levels, but her aspect markings 
now emerge whenever she is in contact with any of her Intimacies, either directly (being in the 
presence of a hated enemy or a loved one) or emotionally (receiving news of some cause near 
and dear to her heart). These Charm-granted health levels are the first lost when she takes 
damage, and they cannot heal: once they’re all gone, the Charm ends until she adds on more 
extra flesh.
Forsaken Corpse Compass (••)
Resonance: Perception, Intelligence
The Liminal’s Essence clots and thickens throughout her home stomping grounds, attuning her to 
the presence of death.
System: After spending at least half of her time within a one-mile area for a week or more, the 
Liminal may spend 3 Motes to activate this Charm. Henceforth, the Liminal’s home and 
surrounding environs (encompassing everything within half a mile per dot of permanent Essence 
around whatever place she has claimed as her home) are enchanted, and remain enchanted until a
week goes by without her entering the area. Within this region, the Liminal always instinctively 
knows whenever she draws within ten zones of a corpse, and may spend 1 Willpower to 
unerringly find it, whether it is properly inanimate or not.
Galvanic Nightmare Approach (••)
Resonance: Dexterity, Appearance, Wits
The Liminal’s Essence tunes her nervous system to a screaming pitch, accelerating her reactions 
until her very neurons burn out under the overload. To her foes, she seems to move like a jerking 
nightmare marionette, somehow twisting into position to anticipate their every action before 
they’ve more than begun to move.
System: The Liminal may reflexively suffer one point of unsoakable bashing damage to cut 
ahead and attack before any of her opponents.
Limb-Rending Trauma (••)
Resonance: Strength, Dexterity
Striking at her opponent, the Liminal locks in a grip like iron—and pulls. Skin, muscle, and bone 
part as easily as the stitches and stuffing of a child’s doll.
System: If one of the Liminal’s unarmed attacks inflicts at least three levels of damage to her 
target after soak, the player may reflexively pay 1 Mote to tear off a body part of her choice. If 
the damage was bashing, activating this Charm makes it lethal.
Meat Marionette Conjunction (••)
Resonance: Stamina, Appearance, Intelligence
Where other Liminals must painstakingly stitch, staple, or suture on new body parts, such is the 
Exalt’s mastery of stolen flesh that she may affix replacement body parts simply by touching 
them to a waiting stump or other connection point and watching bone, muscle, and skin fuse 
together.
System: The difficulty to attach limbs or flesh to the Liminal’s body is permanently reduced by 
–2, and the time needed is reduced to one turn (including for Charms such as Many-Armed 
Manikin Concentration).
Muscle-Burning Exertions (••)
Resonance: Strength
The Liminal may sew or bolt additional muscle mass onto her body, giving her a hideous lumpen 
appearance, but enabling truly impossible feats of strength.
System: The Liminal affixes significant amounts of muscle mass harvested from dead bodies 
(or, gruesomely, from a living victim: it requires inflicting at least two lethal damage for this 
Charm to be effective) to herself, requiring fifteen minutes of work and a successful Dexterity + 
(Craft or Medicine) roll at difficulty 7. While she sports this excess muscle mass, she suffers a –2 
penalty to all Appearance rolls.
The Liminal may trigger this excess musculature to lower the difficulty of a feat of strength to 
lift or break by –3, or to cause her unarmed attacks to gain a base damage of 7B for the next 
(Essence rating) rounds. Doing so shreds and destroys the boosted muscle mass.
Rage to Ashes Calcination (••)
Resonance: Charisma, Appearance
The Liminal drinks in the fury around her, taking it into herself and leaving behind only numbed 
bewilderment in those around her.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll Appearance + Empathy against difficulty 4. Everyone present 
whose Willpower rating is equal to or less than the number of successes rolled becomes 
incapable of feeling anger for the rest of the scene. The Exalt’s lifeline is immune to this Charm.
Wretched Unfeeling Existence (••)
Resonance: Stamina
The Liminal deadens herself to pain, deadens herself to feeling, deadens herself to life.
System: The Liminal may reflexively gain 1 Limit to render herself immune to wound penalties
for the rest of the scene. Doing so also makes her unable to benefit from her Intimacies in any 
way for the rest of the scene (though the Intimacies are still present, and may compel her during 
Alienation).
Many-Armed Manikin Concentration (•••)
Resonance: Dexterity, Wits
The Liminal may add additional limbs to her body in excess of the two she normally possesses, 
extruding new nervous and muscular system extensions to connect and control them.
System: Adding additional limbs requires at least fifteen minutes of work and a successful 
Dexterity + (Craft or Medicine) roll at difficulty 7. 
While sporting additional limbs, the Liminal may potentially use multiple fighting styles (see p. 
XX) at once. If she either remains unarmed or goes all-in on dual wielding, then her dual 
wielding benefit can be used an extra time per battle.
Alternately, spend 1 Mote to flood the additional limbs with Essence, heightening their reaction 
speed and imbuing them with an independent spirit of aggression. At the end of the round, after 
all other characters have acted, roll an extra attack.
The character suffers a –2 penalty to all Appearance rolls while her additional limbs are visible,
and increases the Willpower roll of those who see her aspect markings by +1.
Patchwork Body Reconstruction (•••)
Resonance: Stamina, Charisma
The Liminal may short-cut the tedium of healing her wounds by crudely suturing fresh flesh to 
her own body. The result is initially lumpy and hideous, but over the span of an hour or so her 
body metabolizes the additional corpse-mass until her appearance returns to its normal state.
System: The Liminal may affix significant amounts of flesh harvested from dead bodies (or, 
potentially but rather hideously, living donors: it requires inflicting at least three lethal damage 
for this Charm to be effective) to herself, requiring fifteen minutes of work and a successful 
Dexterity + (Craft or Medicine) roll at difficulty 7. At the end of the scene, she may roll her 
Willpower against difficulty 6, healing one point of lethal or two points of bashing damage for 
each success.
Alternately, the Exalt may touch a corpse, spend 2 Motes, and rip great whirling swathes of meat 
and muscle free from it, which gruesomely affix themselves to her and allow her to skip directly
and immediately to the Willpower roll to heal.
Screaming Meat Sarcophagus (•••)
Resonance: Strength
Surging toward her enemy, the Liminal’s entire body explodes into a writhing webwork of 
gleaming viscera and squirming muscle fibers. In a matter of heartbeats she reweaves herself 
together, engulfing her target’s body within the cage of her bones and musculature: observers 
witness the hideous sight of the target half-subsumed into the Liminal’s body, straining and 
screaming against the inside of her skin, struggling to escape from a malformed and suffocating 
prison of flesh.
System: Spend 2 Motes and make a Strength + Brawl attack. If it succeeds, then the target is 
engulfed and cannot take any movement actions. Each turn, if he wishes to escape then the target 
must use his turn to make a contested Strength + Athletics roll against the Liminal’s (higher of 
Strength or Stamina) + Athletics, both at difficulty 6. If the target manages to build up three 
more cumulative successes, then the Liminal suffers three levels of unsoakable lethal damage as 
her victim tears his way free. If the victim cannot break free within (his Stamina x 2) turns, he 
suffocates to death, assuming he is capable of suffocation. If he wishes to take any other action, 
it suffers a –3 dice penalty. The Liminal must use each of her turns to sustain this Charm, neither 
moving nor taking any other action.
The Liminal may reflexively release her prisoner at any time. If she wishes to converse with her 
target, he can hear her with no difficulty, although his ability to reply is likely to be limited to 
nodding, shaking, and muffled screaming.
Skin-Shedding Evasion (•••)
Resonance: Stamina
The Liminal accepts a wound, her anatomy twisting and reshaping around it until she has moved 
the injury to some part of her she can afford to cast aside. Onlookers may be treated to a 
gruesome sight such as a Lunar impaling a Liminal on his claws, only for the Exalt to churn her 
muscles, ribs, and organs around his intruding fist with a greasy slurping noise, pushing the 
claws out into one of her arms below the elbow, whence she allows the ravaged limb to fall off 
without losing so much as a drop of her blood.
System: The player may reflexively spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower after the character is struck by 
an attack, but before damage is rolled. The Liminal negates the damage roll and suffers no 
damage, but must suffer a crippling wound.
Wretched Tangled Strings (•••)
Resonance: Manipulation, Wits
The Liminal may throw an entire project or team into disarray by subjecting them to the horror 
of what she truly is, leaving turmoil and disquiet in her wake.
System: The Liminal can target a specific team, office, or project with terrible inefficiency. In 
order to do so, she must spend 3 Mote while in the presence of a key member of the team, 
exposing her aspect markings to that individual in the process. He is so shaken by the sight that 
his haunted eyes distract and disrupt everyone else he works with, until everyone is glancing at 
windows and checking the shadows for a slumped, broken, gruesome figure that haunts their 
dreams, even if they know not why.
Everyone involved in pushing the project forward increases the difficulty of all rolls to do so by 
+2 for the rest of the current story. In narrative terms, the project is plagued with hesitance, 
paranoia, and inefficiency and grinds to a near-halt. If the Liminal’s lifeline is part of the project, 
she instinctively knows the Exalt is responsible for the disruptions plaguing it.
Marrow Charms
Body-Smuggling Ways (•)
Resonance: Wits
The Liminal carves out hollows within her anatomy and Essence, allowing her to store objects 
undetectably within pouches and pockets hidden all throughout her body.
System: The Liminal may store a number of objects inside of herself equal to her Stamina rating. 
Anything she can hold in one hand can easily fit; at the outside, she can’t conceal anything much 
bigger than a habitually overfed cat, or, in the case of long thin objects, any object much longer 
than her forearm.
If she also knows the Charm: Cabinet of Curiosities, she may dedicate two of her storage “slots” 
to stacking a second use of that Charm while it is already active.
Cabinet of Curiosities (•)
Resonance: Stamina, Intelligence
The Liminal loads spare flesh and organs into her body for use later, connecting them to her own 
vital Essence both to keep them fresh and to render them universally compatible with any 
anatomy.
System: The Liminal affixes additional flesh and organs gathered from corpses (or, possibly, 
from a still-living victim: it requires inflicting at least three lethal damage for this Charm to be 
effective) to herself, requiring fifteen minutes of work and a successful Dexterity + (Craft or 
Medicine) roll at difficulty 7.
Henceforth, she may expend her stockpile of spare medical supplies when making a Medicine 
roll to treat someone, lowering the difficulty by three (to a minimum of difficulty 3). Alternately, 
she may reflexively repurpose her spare flesh and organs to activate any Charm that requires the 
addition of excess body mass, such as Patchwork Body Reconstruction, Corpse-Body Rigor, or 
Muscle-Burning Exertions.
Dead Man’s Tongue (•)
Resonance: Manipulation, Intelligence
Sewing a new tongue into her mouth, the Liminal gains fluency in all languages its former owner 
spoke.
System: Whenever the Liminal swaps out her tongue, she loses access to any languages she has 
not properly mastered through either speaking them natively or through purchasing the 
appropriate Background dots. This Charm also conveys literacy in any absorbed languages, if the 
former owner was able to read them.
Flowering Osseous Arsenal (•)
Resonance: Strength, Dexterity, Wits
The Liminal may extrude weapons directly from her skeletal system, creating bone clubs, blades, 
axes, slim bone darts, or even a bow strung with one of her own tendons, which fire bone arrows.
System: By taking an action and spending 1 Mote, the Liminal may produce any simple melee 
weapon she desires, or an unlimited supply of bone shards to throw as darts, or a bow with 
unlimited ammunition she draws out of her own forearm. This weapon persists for the rest of the 
scene before crumbling to nothing. If the Liminal wields the weapon herself, it is directly 
anchored to her skeleton and cannot be disarmed. She can only pass out melee weapons or 
(Essence x 3) darts to others; if she wishes to create a continuous supply of darts or a bow, only 
she can use them.
Grave-Tender’s Insights (•)
Resonance: Perception
Whenever the Liminal touches an object that serves as a ghost’s Fetter, she becomes aware of its 
connection to the everafter.
System: This Charm is always active, but while it always tells the character when she is 
handling a Fetter, does nothing to directly lead the Exalt to the ghost (or ghosts) connected to the 
Fetter. If the Liminal should behold a ghost connected to the Fetter while touching the object, 
however, she senses the bond between the two.
Muscle-Weaving Chirurgeon’s Art (•)
Resonance: Dexterity, Intelligence
The Liminal’s unsurpassed instinct for anatomy allows her to deftly mend the injuries of others.
System: After a mere scene of treating and ministering another character, the Liminal may spend 
1 Mote and roll Intelligence + Medicine against difficulty 7. Her patient heals one lethal or two 
bashing damage per success. If treating her lifeline, this Charm’s cost drops to 0 Motes.
Painful Beauty Appreciated (•)
Resonance: Perception
The Liminal may sharpen her senses to an almost unbearable intensity. She can hear a person’s 
heartbeat from rooms away, read a sheet of paper by letting her fingers trail across the ink on it, 
and tell the species of a bird that to everyone around her seems nothing more than a speck 
against the sun.
System: The Liminal must spend a turn in concentration to activate or banish this Charm. While 
it is active, the difficulty of all Perception rolls drops by three, to a minimum of difficulty 3. At 
the end of any scene where the character kept this Charm active for more than a few minutes, she 
gains 1 Limit due to being overwhelmed by the glorious intensity of the world around her, and 
the pain of her separation from it. She may avoid gaining Limit if she remains in her lifeline’s 
presence the whole time Painful Beauty Appreciated is active.
Secrets Sleeping in Bones (•)
Resonance: Intelligence
The Liminal may send her Essence winding into a newly-added body part, dredging forth its 
forgotten talents.
System: Upon adding a new limb or organ to her body, the Liminal may reflexively pay 1 Mote 
and roll Intelligence + Occult against difficulty 7. For each success, she may temporarily gain 1 
Ability dot the body part’s former owner possessed. This can’t raise her ratings above those of 
the donor. 
Using this Charm again causes the Liminal to immediately lose all dots gained by her last 
activation of the Charm. She can only use Secrets Sleeping in Bones immediately upon adding a 
fresh body part; it’s not possible to activate it repeatedly on the same body part or older body 
parts to “fish” for a good roll result. She can, however, use her temporary Ability dots as a basis 
to train herself to permanently raise her Abilities with experience points as though she were 
buying a Favored Ability.
Stars and Quicksilver Fixation (•)
Resonance: Perception, Intelligence
The Liminal brings her Essence into alignment with emanations of otherworldly energy, 
glimpsing places of power or even other worlds.
System: The Liminal can roll Perception + Occult against difficulty 7 to survey the Essence of 
the world around her. Depending on the number of successes rolled and the presence of anything
interesting to detect, she might uncover things like the radiance of a nearby Manse or Demesne, a 
subtle but active spell or sorcerous working, or the fact that a ferocious amount of Essence was 
spent in the area sometime recently. She can also discern particular profiles, flavors, or “colors” 
of Essence if she has encountered them before, and thus might use this Charm to track a missing 
Circlemate by the trail of his expended Essence.
Uncanny Focal Obsession (•)
Resonance: Stamina, Intelligence
The Liminal is an empty vessel, and she may pour herself full of the waters of knowledge as 
quickly as filling a ewer at a river, though she may crack from the effort.
System: The Liminal may read and absorb information as fast as she can track her eyes across 
the page. Books can be consumed in moments. For every six hours’ worth of reading she 
compresses into a matter of seconds or minutes, the Exalt suffers one level of unsoakable 
bashing damage.
Aspect of the Skull (••)
Resonance: Stamina, Appearance
The Liminal’s skin grows pale, hard, and cold to the touch, and her Essence temporarily sustains 
her in place of the laws of biology. In direct light the Exalt takes on a pale, corpselike aspect, 
while in the dark she seems to be sheathed in cold, gleaming ivory.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm for the rest of the scene. The Liminal
halves any bashing damage she suffers (round down) after soak while it is active, and suffers 
bashing damage from arrows. Alternately, this Charm may be activated without paying a Mote 
cost, but the Liminal forgets all that she did while under its effects when it ends.
Bone-Armor Shell (••)
Resonance: Stamina
The Liminal forges bony armor plating over much of her body.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote and roll Willpower against difficulty 6. Each success grants 
the character 1 additional soak for the rest of the scene. If this generates fewer successes than her 
Stamina rating, then she gains her Stamina rating in additional soak instead. This Charm doesn’t 
stack with itself; new activations replace older ones. The Liminal’s armored shell cuts her off 
from the world while it is active, rendering her incapable of deriving any benefit from her 
Intimacies.
Hidden Hearts Unveiled (••)
Resonance: Manipulation, Perception
Piercing someone else with an unsettling stare, the Liminal momentarily lays bare the innermost 
heart of the one she examines.
System: The Liminal may concentrate on a specific individual for a few moments, spend 1 
Mote, and make a Perception + Empathy roll against difficulty 6. Success allows her to behold 
the subtleties of their anima and learn their current emotional state. One success grants 
knowledge of her current emotional state. Three successes reveals what sort of anima the person 
has, if it is in any way unusual. Five successes reveals the target’s Nature.
If the target is paying direct attention to the Liminal when she uses this Charm (such as if they 
are having a conversation, as opposed to the Liminal quietly observing her target from across the 
room), then he briefly beholds her aspect markings as though they’d been revealed by a flash of 
lightning.
Rattling the Ancestor Bones (••)
Resonance: Perception
The Liminal extrudes her Essence into the area immediately surrounding her, agitating the 
memories that slumber in the air, in the earth, in the mundane objects. She sees what they have 
seen, witnesses what they have witnessed, in the form of a phantasmal play articulated by her 
anima.
System: Spend 3 Motes and roll Perception + Investigation against difficulty 7. The Storyteller 
decides what scene that happened in the Liminal’s current location her anima recreates for her; 
the more successes rolled, the more directly useful and relevant it will be to her needs.
Skeletal Spike Embrace (••)
Resonance: Strength, Stamina
The Liminal may extrude her skeleton through her skin in the form of a multitude of jagged bone 
spikes.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, the Exalt’s unarmed attacks inflict 
6L base damage. Anyone who strikes her with his bare hands must soak one level of lethal 
damage, and anyone who grapples her with an effect like Dragon Coil Technique must soak two 
levels of lethal damage per turn.
Spine Chain Summons (••)
Resonance: Strength, Dexterity
The Liminal extrudes a long, lashing limb of jointed bones from the base of her spine, tipped 
with an osseous grasping claw. This spine chain is extremely powerful and resilient.
System: After a moment spent in concentration, the Liminal spends 1 Mote and rolls her 
Stamina + Athletics against difficulty 6. This Charm remains active for the rest of the scene, and 
allows her to lift and move objects up to one zone away using her spine chain. If she tries to 
wrest an object away from another character, or perform fine manipulations, her successes form 
her dice pool to do so. Otherwise, her successes on the activation roll determine her strength in 
lifting and moving objects:
Successes Maximum Weight
One One pound
Two 20 pounds
Three 200 pounds
Four 500 pounds
Five 1,000 pounds
Six+ +1,000 pounds per success
Used as a weapon, the spine chain uses a dice pool of Dexterity + Melee and has a base damage 
of 5L. With 3+ successes, the Liminal can swing herself about by anchoring the spine chain and 
pulling herself from place to place, even suspending herself in midair.
Unhappy Scarecrow Deceit (••)
Resonance: Stamina, Appearance
The Liminal briefly abandons her precious grasp on life, disguising herself as a crude imitation 
of humanity. Though she remains aware of her surroundings, no degree of scrutiny can make her 
out to be anything but what she appears to be.
System: After a moment’s concentration, the Liminal spends 1 Mote and gains 1 Limit. Until 
she voluntarily ends Unhappy Scarecrow Deceit, she becomes inanimate. What form her disguise 
takes depends on her Aspect:
• Blood Aspects appear to be large (but not fully-sized) examples of the doll-maker’s craft, with 
glass eyes and skin of porcelain.
• Breath Aspects assume the aspect of a puppeteer’s dummy, often with wooden limbs and 
strings.
• Flesh Aspects become miscellaneous crude and utilitarian human simulacra, such as falsesentries or graven idols.
• Marrow Aspects take on the form of classical statuary, their clothes and appearance perfectly 
wrought in stone.
• Soil Aspects look like scarecrows, set out to guard a field.
If her lifeline looks upon the Liminal without recognizing her while this Charm is active, she 
gains 1 additional Limit.
Bone-Cracking Revelations (•••)
Resonance: Perception
The Liminal attunes her ear to the tenor of truth and falsehood, hoping the world will play her 
true but terrible in her certainty that it means her ill. Pity those who live down to her low 
expectations.
System: Spend 1 Mote. The next time someone lies to the Exalt, she recognizes the lie 
immediately for what it is, gains 1 Limit, and gains a temporary Intimacy of utter loathing 
toward the liar that persists for 24 hours.
Rancid Unhallowed Wellspring (•••)
Resonance: Strength, Charisma, Intelligence
The Liminal gathers her Essence into a secret nest within whatever site she has claimed as her 
lair, until it reaches critical mass and creates a powerful compaction of sharp, disjointed Essence: 
a tainted Demesne.
System: After spending at least half of her time within a one-mile area for a week or more, the 
Liminal may spend 5 Motes and 1 Willpower to activate this Charm. Henceforth, the Liminal’s 
home and surrounding environs (encompassing everything within 50 yards per dot of permanent 
Essence around whatever place she has claimed as her home) are enchanted, and remain 
enchanted until a week goes by without her entering the area. This area radiates power, 
becoming a temporary Demesne with a rating equal to the Liminal’s Essence. However, the 
power it radiates is tainted, and nigh-useless to all but the Liminal Exalted.
When a being not designed for the rigors of handling tainted Essence draws power from this site,
they violently purge all consumed power from their system as soon as they try to spend any of it, 
and grow violently ill. They must make a Stamina + Resistance roll (difficulty 5 + the number of 
tainted Motes consumed, maximum 9) to determine the violence of their reaction:
Botch: Uncontrolled vomiting, sweating, bowel movements; the body purges itself of all Motes.
0 success: The character loses all but one Mote of Essence.
1 success: The character loses two Motes for every Mote taken from the Demesne.
2 successes: The character loses one Mote of his own for every tainted Mote harvested.
3 successes: The character purges the tainted Motes, losing one additional Mote of his own in 
the process.
4+ successes: The character purges the tainted Motes, but loses nothing more.
Until the character replenishes all Motes lost in the purge, he suffers a penalty to all Mental rolls 
equal to half the number of Motes ingested (rounded down).
Infernals and a very few other profoundly defiled beings are capable of safely handling the 
Demesne’s tainted Essence. Otherwise, assume all other beings find it poisonous.
Secrets Under Bones Separation (•••)
Resonance: Perception
The Liminal attunes herself to every least sign or hint of the uncanny and unnatural in the world 
around her.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. Until the sun next rises, the Liminal becomes aware when 
she stands in the presence of any supernatural being, though she doesn’t inherently know what 
sort of supernatural being any given individual may be. This Charm doesn’t detect 
dematerialized spirits if the Liminal can’t perceive them otherwise.
Screams Like Wax (•••)
Resonance: Dexterity, Manipulation, Intelligence
Working her Essence into living flesh with her bare hands, the Liminal may alter the details of 
someone else’s body, adjusting eye, hair, or skin color, height or weight, particular physical 
features, or even sexual characteristics.
System: The Liminal spends several hours painstakingly coaxing the desired changes into being, 
during which time her patient must be either unconscious or restrained (even if he submits 
voluntarily to the procedure, it is anything but painless). Then her player spends 2 Motes and 
rolls Intelligence + (Craft or Medicine) against difficulty 7. Success produces the desired 
changes, and inflicts one level of unsoakable lethal damage. Failure produces… most of the 
desired changes, and inflicts three levels of unsoakable lethal damage. A botch reduces the 
patient’s Appearance to 0 and inflicts five levels of unsoakable lethal damage.
Patients with perfect healing capabilities such as the Exalted may restore lost dots of Appearance 
and physical alterations inflicted by this Charm as though each were a level of –5 aggravated 
damage. If the target was capable of sexual reproduction before this Charm, they remain so after 
any alterations to their reproductive organs; if not, this Charm cannot repair their infertility.
Inflicting alterations to her lifeline with this Charm causes the Liminal to gain 2 Limit.
Unfeeling Corpse Doll (•••)
Resonance: Stamina
The Exalt’s body accepts all agents of dissolution and decay, subsuming them into her Essence 
without so much as a murmur.
System: Poison and disease can no longer harm the character in any way whatsoever, unless it is 
poison administered by the Exalt’s lifeline.
Soil Charms
At One with the Cycle (•)
Resonance: Perception
While she stands within the fulcrum of life and death, the world freely offers up its secrets to the 
Exalt.
System: Whenever the Liminal stands on land that is being used to nurture life (such as 
farmland) or to contain death (such as a graveyard), she lowers the difficulty of all Perception, 
Awareness, Occult, Empathy, and Socialize rolls by two.
Cycle-Accelerating Sacrament (•)
Resonance: Strength, Charisma
With but a touch and an infusion of Essence, the Liminal speeds the wheels of life and death as 
they work upon the simple bounty of the earth.
System: Touch of plant or seed and spend 1 Mote. The enchanted plant grows to full maturity in 
a matter of seconds. This may provide edible fruit or vegetables, or in the case of larger plants 
such as trees, create sturdy obstacles, ready sources of wood, or even cause structural damage as 
roots dig into stone and a growing trunk strains against walls and ceilings. The plant dies at the 
end of the scene.
Dead Reckoning Alignment (•)
Resonance: Perception, Wits
The Liminal opens herself to the world around her, searching for a sign, a message, any hint of 
guidance. Soon enough, she finds it, guiding her to her next target.
System: At a loss for anything better to do, the Liminal may stand and examine the world around 
her for at least three minutes, trying to discern a pattern from the order of things, and then spends 
1 Willpower and rolls Perception + Occult against difficulty 6. Success allows her to pick up an 
auspicious sign (a wagon rolls by, painted in her favorite color, which in turn draws her eye to a 
bird of the same color that glances at her and flies off down a forest trail: something like that). 
By following the trail of omens for long enough, she’ll eventually come to a place troubled by 
the Unquiet. Alternately, she may spend 1 Mote rather than 1 Willpower to pick up a sign 
pointing her toward her lifeline, though it’s not guaranteed to take her all the way to that 
individual’s location.
Destruction Becomes Renewal (•)
Resonance: Dexterity
The world itself warps and twists at the Liminal’s touch, allowing her to make something new or 
mend what is broken with only a touch. However, the results of such labors are never beautiful.
System: The Liminal may make Craft and Medicine rolls without any of the tools that would 
normally be necessary. Although it may function properly, any object made or repaired in such a 
fashion is always warped or ugly; any injury treated through the application of the Exalt’s bare 
hands and breath always leaves a brutal scar (inflicting such a scar on her lifeline causes the 
Exalt to gain 1 Limit). The Exalt may also touch a corpse, pay 1 Mote, and reverse the effects of 
decay, leaving it as fresh as it was at the moment of death. This does not repair any damage 
sustained in the course of dying.
Eternity-Fueling Alembic (•)
Resonance: Stamina
The Liminal may sustain herself on anything mostly organic, regardless of palatability or even 
edibility. Rotting animals, tree bark, paper, clumps of grass, boots, old shirts: if she can choke it 
down, she can draw enough nourishment from it to stay healthy, with no risk of being made ill or 
even nauseous. She can even make meals of dirt, in a pinch.
System: This Charm is always active. By touching another character, spending 1 Mote, and 
feeding them by hand, she can also extend its benefits to that character for the duration of the 
meal.
Harbinger of Rot (•)
Resonance: Manipulation
The Liminal draws the vitality out of the world around her with a touch, ushering it on toward 
the point of decay.
System: The character touches an object no larger than a wagon, spends 1 Mote, and rolls 
Stamina + Occult against difficulty 7. The object ages by twenty years per success. This Charm 
may also be used to cause an inanimate corpse to immediately decay to dust, at no cost and with 
no need of a roll.
Omen-Shedding Alembic (•)
Resonance: Intelligence
The Liminal filters through the infinite myriad details of the world around her, finding some 
guiding message among the chaos that helps her in her endeavors.
System: Spend 1 Mote to filter out an omen from the world to guide the Liminal’s efforts. 
Define a narrow specialty such as “rural communities,” “against the Unquiet,” “formal debates,” 
or “between sunrise and noon.” All actions the Liminal takes which fall under this specialty 
reduce count results of 10 as two successes. This specialty should not encompass the totality of 
the use of an Ability, and so “when speaking” or “in battle” are not valid specialties.
Righteous Lion Defense (•)
Resonance: Charisma, Wits
The Liminal, who has so very little to define herself, clings with unassailable ferocity to those 
few core convictions she can call her own.
System: Any attempt to cause or force the Exalt to betray, undermine, or abandon her Intimacies 
automatically fails.
Terrestrial Circle Sorcery (•)
Resonance: Occult
The Liminal has been initiated into the practice of sorcery. She can cast Terrestrial Circle spells 
and enact sorcerous workings.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
Thought-Glimpsing Eye (•)
Resonance: Perception
By staring with unnerving intensity at someone, the Liminal may glimpse fluttering shades of 
their true thoughts and meaning in the back of their throat.
System: By taking a few moments to concentrate on another character who is speaking, the Exalt 
may roll Wits + Socialize against a difficulty of (3 + the target’s Manipulation). Success reveals 
what the subject wants to get out of the current interaction, or any agenda he may have that is not 
immediately apparent in his words. Spending 1 Mote after a successful roll will also let the 
Liminal read the target’s surface thoughts for a few moments.
Black Earth Child (••)
Resonance: Stamina
The Liminal may quickly renew her injuries by burying herself in the living earth.
System: While fully immersed in soil, the Liminal can hold her breath indefinitely, and heals all 
bashing damage or one level of lethal damage every 15 minutes. Spending 1 Mote after each 
hour of immersion repairs one level of aggravated damage.
Clay Flesh Constitution (••)
Resonance: Stamina
The Liminal’s body is simply immune to the lesser rigors of the world. Inclement weather, 
snowstorms, even brushing up against a burning curtain: all these things can do her no injury.
System: The Liminal is immune to minor sources of environmental damage — anything that 
isn’t intense enough to kill her in a matter of seconds simply doesn’t bother her at all. By 
spending 1 Mote, she becomes completely immune to all environmental damage for the next 
(Essence rating) minutes, even catastrophes like wading through molten lava or walking into the 
heart of a burning building. This Charm’s benefits automatically extend to the Liminal’s lifeline 
so long as she physically carries that individual or covers him with her body.
Certainty in Cyclical Existence (••)
Resonance: Charisma, Appearance, Wits
The Liminal cycles her Essence between life and death and then back again, shedding any 
enchantment that seeks to bind her.
System: Whenever the character is the subject of any supernatural power that seeks to transform, 
infect, taint, transport, or control her body or spirit, or to alter her destiny or her place in the 
world (such as by magically altering her Backgrounds), she may reflexively spend 1 Mote and 
roll Wits + Occult against difficulty 7. Success shatters the hostile magic, protecting the Liminal 
completely. Alternately, the Liminal may force the invasive magic into a specific part of her 
body (an eye, a hand, her tongue, etc) and then tear the offending flesh loose, suffering one level 
of unsoakable lethal damage in the process. The curse takes hold of the discarded lump of flesh, 
leaving the Liminal otherwise unbothered.
Corpse-Rending Grasp (••)
Resonance: Strength
The fires of life and death blaze within the Exalt’s hands, empowering her to tear the Unquiet 
asunder.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, the Liminal’s unarmed attacks 
inflict aggravated damage to the Unquiet.
Dead Man’s Hand (••)
Resonance: Strength, Charisma
The Liminal is not her parts: and yet, still, they belong to her, and their dignity is her own, their 
power her power. What has affronted her hand has affronted the Exalt; what has offended her 
eye has offended her, and her outrage lends weight to her vengeance.
System: So long as the Liminal’s body includes any parts harvested from someone who died as a 
result of the malice of others, she is empowered to seek retribution. Once she glimpses someone 
directly responsible for the death of any of her parts, she becomes tireless so long as she keeps 
moving, and she cannot lose the trail; even if it means she must walk from one coast of the 
Blessed Isle to another, she may do so without slowing, tiring, or sleeping. Upon catching one of 
her murderers, all attack, soak, and damage rolls she makes against them are at –1 difficulty. 
Upon slaying one of her killers, the Liminal immediately regains one point of Willpower.
Detail-Distinguishing Eye (••)
Resonance: Perception
The Liminal’s uncanny instincts brush aside all irrelevancies, leading her to immediately notice 
the most relevant detail present.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to compress a scene’s worth of observation into the time it 
takes to draw in a deep breath, allowing for an immediate roll to investigate a room or diagnose a
patient.
Eyes Burning in Time (••)
Resonance: Perception
The Liminal’s senses tear asunder the veil of time, allowing her to sift through the years using 
her body as the medium of exchange.
System: The Liminal spends a few moments peering about at her surroundings, spends 2 Motes, 
and rolls Perception + Awareness against difficulty 7, or difficulty 6 if she stands in a place of 
either growth (such as farmland or a verdant forest) or death (such as a graveyard or famous 
battlefield). She commits a body part to the Charm, names something she wishes to witness that 
occurred at that spot, and sends her senses reeling into the past to relive it as though she stood as 
witness to the occurrence. If she commits a hand or foot, she may send her senses back up to a 
maximum of (successes rolled) years. If she commits her eyes, an entire limb, or her face, she 
may send her senses back up to (successes rolled) decades. The committed body part ages a 
number of years equal to the span of time the Liminal bridges to witness the past event she seeks, 
potentially leaving her with a withered or even dead body part, or faded or blind eyes upon her 
return.
Locked Tomb Ruminations (••)
Resonance: Wits
The character hides her innermost thoughts within the depths of her Exaltation. Any who would 
intrude into her mind find themselves confronted by the sheer dissonance of the Liminal’s 
nature.
System: Whenever someone attempts to read the Liminal’s mind by any means, they must make 
a Willpower roll as though witnessing her Aspect markings for the first time, and the Liminal 
becomes aware that someone is trying to pick through her thoughts. If the intruder fails on the 
roll, she also becomes aware of exactly who is responsible for the intrusion. She may then pay 1 
Mote to reflexively shield her thoughts, making them impossible to read for the rest of the scene.
An Empty Place (•••)
Resonance: Strength, Charisma, Wits
Sometimes it is vital that battles against the Unquiet not draw in the innocent. Sometimes a 
Liminal has need of privacy. And sometimes it is simply imperative that she have all the time she 
needs to attend to a vendetta. Touching her hands together, the Exalt releases a shockwave of 
corrosive, disrupting Essence. The world blows away in sudden tatters like a hundred birds 
taking wing, leaving the Liminal and those he has business with standing upon a barren plain of 
bare black earth, beneath an empty blazing white sky filled with howling flecks of black ash 
carried on hurricane winds.
System: The player spends 2 Motes and rolls (Charisma + Occult) against difficulty 6. The Exalt 
transports herself and up to three additional characters within her line of sight per success (or a 
group of up to her successes rolled in Size) into a liminal nowhere-space divided into four zones 
as quadrants. She may maintain this spatial distortion for as long as she wishes, so long as she 
doesn’t leave its boundaries, and may end it at any point she chooses, at which point everyone 
still in the no-place returns to the world at roughly the point of their departure. Anyone who steps 
outside the boundaries of An Empty Place becomes lost in the most far-flung, dangerous depths 
of the Labyrinth that ranges beneath the Underworld.
Misbegotten Miracle Putrefaction (•••)
Resonance: Intelligence
The Liminal draws upon the living Essence of the earth itself to fortify her command of the 
ancient mysteries.
System: Upon purchasing this Charm, the Liminal lowers the difficulty of all shape sorcery rolls 
by–1.
Hallowed Rotting Field (•••)
Resonance: Stamina, Charisma
The Liminal’s Essence permeates the landscape around her lair, bidding it to do the good work 
of the grave. The soil becomes exceptionally dark and fertile in the area, and any animate corpse 
that ventures onto such hallowed ground is soon made fodder for the cycle.
System: After spending at least half of her time within a one-mile area for a week or more, the 
Liminal may spend 3 Motes and 1 Willpower to activate this Charm. Henceforth, the Liminal’s 
home and surrounding environs (encompassing everything within half a mile per dot of 
permanent Essence around whatever place she has claimed as her home) are enchanted, and 
remain enchanted until a week goes by without her entering the area. Whenever an animate 
corpse enters the area, they soon find their flesh bursting with maggots, botfly larvae, and 
worms. Such creatures suffer one unsoakable level of lethal damage and lose one dot of 
Appearance for each hour spent in the Hallowed Rotting Field. Lost dots of Appearance may be 
healed as though they were a level of aggravated damage.
The Rending of Masks (•••)
Resonance: Perception
A ripple passes across the Liminal’s features like a shadow crossing the sun, momentarily 
revealing the horror that lies beneath. In the same moment, her Essence washes out, stripping 
away all mystic concealment and dissembling from those around her.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to immediately defeat all forms of supernatural concealment, 
invisibility, and the like. Any character that is trying to hide from the Liminal is immediately 
revealed to her senses, and to those of anyone else present. At the same moment, however, the 
Liminal’s Aspect markings briefly stand revealed to all and sundry.
Resilient Corpse Vigil (•••)
Resonance: Stamina
The Exalt can be beaten, but never beaten down.
System: The Liminal does not lose consciousness when her Health track is filled with bashing 
damage, but instead remains upright and able to act. This Charm’s effects are permanent.
Travels Along the Road Forward
Many Liminals simply try to get along as best they can. They soon conclude that they are 
broken, unfinished works, writ into the world by a callous author, but do not imagine that there is 
anything to be done about that lamentable state of affairs. This is true, historically, for something 
on the order of half of the Black Earth Children: they simply get along as best they can, living 
what life they may.
Others… are not satisfied with their lot. They wonder if they can be whole. If they cannot be 
whole, they wonder if they can be more. And so they experiment. They push at the boundaries 
and limitations of their being. They try to find ways to grasp what they seemingly cannot have. 
They are walkers of the Road Forward.
It is not clear, at any step, what the Road Forward leads toward. Every Liminal has her hopes. 
Some have expectations. A rare, blessed few even encounter fellow-travelers along the Road, 
and may glean some gems of hidden wisdom from them. But those who walk the Road know —
suspect — must believe — that the Road is real. They can feel it working upon them, even as 
they discover its rules and contours by an agonizing, painstaking process of trial and error.
In truth, it is not one Road, but several, and it leads to a number of possible destinations. What 
follows is a guide for telling stories about this voyage.
Footprints in the Fog
Roads are frameworks for experimentation, transformation, and refinement of the self. They are 
a scaffold by which a Liminal might climb out of her miserable state, but one whose structure is 
invisible until it is grasped. One who tries to scale to the lofty heights spends a great deal of time 
groping about and finding only empty air.
The Roads are neither clear nor straightforward. It is not inaccurate to call them a roadmap to 
transformation, but it might also be fitting to describe them as scavenger hunts in which several 
objectives are missing and most of the rest are encrypted. A Road is a framework and a direction, 
but as the Liminal forges her way deeper into its complexities, she must increasingly invent her 
own answers and make her own truths.
The Liminal Exalted possess the potential to rewrite their own Exaltations, but must struggle 
against the ultimate fact that no one can perform that universal alchemy for them. They are not 
following a recipe, but composing a symphony that expresses the ultimate truth of their fate. A 
very great deal of improvisation will be required.
Systems
The Liminal Exalted rate their progress along the Road Forward as a trait, rated from 0 to 10. A 
character who is walking a Road begins play with a Road rating of one dot, and must increase it 
by an arduous search for enlightenment over the rest of the chronicle.
Achievements
Each Road inculcates a series of refinements in a Liminal who walks it, detailed in its particular 
writeup. These Achievements are cumulative, building toward a final apotheosis.
A Liminal who stumbles on the Road and steps backwards loses access to these Achievements, 
unless she can raise her rating again.
Changing Roads
It’s not at all unusual for a Liminal to flirt with several Roads before finally settling on the one 
that resonates with her. Many Liminals don’t even realize there are multiple Roads they might 
potentially walk. Nor is it uncommon for a Liminal to realize she’s made a mistake, abandon a 
Road she’s already made some progress upon, and take up a different way.
In game terms, a Liminal who wishes to abandon her Road must simply arrive at the decision to 
do so. Her Road rating then drops by one at the end of every story, and she gains one point of 
Limit. Alternately, she may take decisive action to repudiate her Road by engaging in deliberate 
violations of its tenets, removing a Road dot and gaining two points of Limit with each violation. 
Once she reaches a Road rating of 0, she must construct for herself a structured ambition and 
plan to attempt a new Road. At the end of the present story, she gains her first dot in that Road, 
and must begin advancing in it anew, having forsaken all of her former Road accomplishments 
(including losing all of her Achievements).
Walking the Road Forward
Advancing along the Road is a long, arduous process. It’s a combination of piecing together a 
coherent philosophy, blind guessing, avoidance of damaging types of behavior, painstaking 
study, receptivity to lucky moments when the world has something to teach, and, eventually, the 
determination to go hunting more of those moments once they stop falling into the character’s 
lap of their own accord.
A Basic Outline of Remaking an Exaltation
Here’s how it works in a nutshell. As you play your character, you accumulate a special kind of 
experience points called Journey. You get these at the same time you get normal experience 
points, at the end of a session, based on fulfilling Road tenets, experiencing revealing moments,
and undergoing Road milestones during play.
When you get enough Journey (current Road rating x 5), you can spend it to try to raise your 
Road. This involves a bit of ceremony and a Willpower roll. If things go well, you get a Road
dot.
You can also experience temporary setbacks by acting like a fuck-up or suffering severe 
misfortune during your quest for self-actualization. These are stumbles. When you stumble, you 
need to make a Willpower roll to hold fast to your Road. If it doesn’t go well, you’ll temporarily 
lower your effective Road rating. Regaining lost ground isn’t as arduous as getting there for the 
first time, but it still takes some effort. Hitting several stumbles in quick succession can send you 
tumbling back down the ranks of your Road, and can leave you with a nasty hole to dig yourself 
out of. Nobody said becoming a real boy would be easy.
Raising Road
When a Liminal believes herself ready to advance along her Road — that is to say, when the 
player wishes to raise her character’s rating — she must seek out some experience capable of 
elevating her consciousness beyond the countless distractions around her. Examples of 
appropriate stimuli include but are certainly not limited to:
• Dialogue with a god or Sidereal Exalted who attempts to guide the opening of her mind.
• Retreating into extended meditative seclusion.
• Mortifying herself through some manner of ordeal intended to shock her consciousness to a 
higher state of awareness.
• Pushing herself to her limits in the hopes of glimpsing the truth in a timeless moment which 
demands action beyond thought.
• Most commonly, extreme practice of some obligation or ritual of her Road.
The player must then spend (current Path rating x 5) Journey and rolls the character’s Willpower
against a variable difficulty: 
• Difficulty 6 to reach a rating of 1, 2, or 3
• Difficulty 7 to reach a rating of 4 or 5
• Difficulty 8 to reach a rating of 6 or 7
• Difficulty 9 to reach a rating of 8, 9, or 10.
This roll cannot be enhanced by any Charms or other supernatural assistance.
Success grants a new dot in her Road. She feels the fire of Exaltation flare within her, burning 
her mind and body, and then recede into a new shape. The rightness of her path unfolds around 
her. In the aftermath, the world seems a different place, although in truth it is the Liminal who 
has changed.
Failure sends her crashing down emptyhanded from the cusp of achieving something truly 
profound. If she was attempting to ascend to Road 6 or above, her certainty trembles and doubts 
assail her: was she truly following the way, or have all her recent ordeals led her into error? She 
must resist stumbling. In any case, she gains a point of Limit.
Botching the roll sends her into a stumble regardless of what Path rating she tried to rise to
(difficulty 6), and also bestows four points of Limit.
No Journey is lost if the attempt fails, but the character can’t try again until sometime after the 
end of the current story. Additionally, each failure imposes a cumulative –1 die penalty on the 
next attempt until the Liminal finally succeeds, although this can’t reduce her dice pool to less 
than one die.
Gaining Journey
Gaining Journey works much like gaining regular experience (see p. XX), save that the 
conditions and gains are a bit different.
At the end of each chapter, the Storyteller speaks to the Liminal’s player, asking if they fulfilled 
each of the conditions during that session and, if so, to explain how they accomplished that. This 
makes the journey along the Road Forward tangible. The player can see and hear their character 
changing from week to week as they grasp new lessons, dare new dangers in the quest to become 
something more, and grow into deeper understanding of and engagement with their Road.
Here are the conditions:
One point — Road Adherence: Did the character manage to live up to the tenets of her Road
without actively violating any of them? If so, she gets a point of Journey. If she stumbled due to 
her own actions, she voids this point.
One point — Wisdom’s Crucible: Did the character exhibit one of the tenets of her Road
despite significant personal cost, inconvenience, or danger? If so, then after the player explains 
how this was the case, she gets a point of Journey.
One point — Revealing Moment: Did the character encounter a moment in which she grasped 
some lesson or underwent a revelation about her Road? If so, the player must articulate the 
nature of the character’s understanding and the circumstances that provoked it. Revealing 
moments are intended to be uncommon, not something that happens every session, and they 
grow fewer and farther between as a Liminal advances along her Road and finds fewer 
revelations left for her to grasp. Still, sometimes the events of the story will organically foist a 
great realization upon a character, and that is worth a point of Journey.
Variable points — Road Milestones: There are certain moments that are so inherently 
profound that they will shock any Liminal into a state of heightened awareness. Some milestones 
are universal, and are detailed below. Others are particular to a Liminal’s Road, and are detailed 
in that Road’s writeup. Many milestones can only convey their lesson once, and lose their ability 
to transform Exalt with repeated exposure. These are worth two Journey. Others might 
potentially convey their benefits again and again. These yield one Journey, but a given milestone 
can only do so once per story.
A Road can only be raised with Journey.
Universal Road Milestones
There are some experiences so powerful, so profound, that they are guaranteed to shock any 
Liminal into becoming something other than what she was before, regardless of her Road. These 
are universal milestones. There are also Road-specific milestones, detailed later in this chapter.
Examples of universal milestones include but are not limited to:
• Ongoing instruction from a Liminal of greater advancement along your Road, or from a 
Sidereal Exalted (Sidereals are able to point out the most auspicious paths of destiny’s branches 
to lead the Liminal to what she seeks). (One point, received at the end of each story in which this 
instruction continues)
• Receiving instruction from a Liminal who holds a much greater (3+ point gap) rating than 
yours, but on a different Road. (One point, once per story.)
• Receiving instruction from a spirit with Essence 7+. (One point, once per story)
• Journeying to Heaven for the first time. (Two points)
• Journeying to Hell for the first time. (Two points)
• Experiencing the Wyld for the first time. (Two points)
• Journeying into the Underworld for the first time. (Two points)
• Encountering the Unquiet for the first time. (Two points)
• Dying for the first time. (Two points)
• Deliberately killing a mortal for the first time. (Two points)
• Experiencing the death of your maker. (Two points)
• Finding a new lifeline for the first time. (Two points)
The Long, Long Road
Raising Road costs (current rating x 5) Journey. Starting from Road 1 at character 
creation, a bit of quick napkin math shows that, assuming nothing goes wrong, 
that’s… 225 Journey to complete the Road Forward. Holy shit that’s a lot. While 
you could potentially net five Journey in a single session (or maybe even more if 
you hit multiple Milestones), usually it’s going to be more like one to three per 
session. Realistically, we’re talking somewhere in the neighborhood of 75 to 115 
sessions. Assuming, again, no stumbles, and there are probably going to be 
stumbles.
Here’s the secret: The fun of the quest to become something more is in the quest, 
not the attainment of the goal at its end. You can transform your Exaltation and 
become something more than the wretched stitchwork thing you started as. You 
absolutely can. But it’s an incredibly long, arduous journey, and the prize at the end 
is that you’re playing something other than the Liminal you started the game 
wanting to play, or you retire the character altogether. To be frank, EXD doesn’t 
assume you’re going to get there in the span of your chronicle. Most groups are 
going to wrap their story somewhere in the vicinity of Road 3-7.
This isn’t to say that if you put together an epic multi-year chronicle and completely 
follow the Road Forward to its conclusion that you’re doing it wrong, by any 
means. That’s awesome. Just… don’t feel pressured by the fact that the Road 
Forward is built to be longer than most chronicles will realistically last. It’s a 
feature, not a bug. This is, at the end of the day, a game about telling vibrant stories.
Relax and enjoy the ride.
Stumbling
The Road Forward contains many twists and turns, blind alleys, deadfalls, and other obstacles. 
Indeed, if rebuilding one’s Exaltation could be likened to climbing a mountain, then it seems at 
times that the slopes have been greased. It’s easy for a Liminal to step off of her Road in a 
moment of carelessness, anger, or simple misfortune. If she’s lucky, the shock of doing so acts as 
a salutary reminder to hold fast to her dedication. If she’s not, then she feels the hard-fought 
wages of Essence cultivation slither through her grasp like sand, and tumbles back down to an 
earlier station on the Road.
In game terms, stumbles are a bit like an Abyssal’s violation of the Nameless Curse. Misstep, 
and suffer misfortune. When a Liminal stumbles, her player must roll her Willpower against a 
difficulty that varies based on the error that led her from the Road (see the Mistakes section, 
below).
Success allows the Liminal to hold steady to her Road. She realizes her error and recoils from its 
implications. The experience shakes her, inflicting a –1 penalty to all rolls for the remainder of 
the scene, but at least she has not lost her way.
Failure means that the Liminal loses herself. She falls from her Road, consumed with the affairs 
of the moment, and will not realize what she has lost until later when she realizes that things 
which were once clear to her are now like muddy water. She gains a point of Limit.
Botching the roll leads the Liminal off the Road and she knows it, immediately sensing her 
error. When she reaches for her past accomplishments and certainties to fortify herself, she finds 
they no longer make sense. She gains five points of Limit.
A Liminal who has stumbled and fallen has become lost. Her effective Road rating drops by one 
point. This causes her to lose access to any Achievements conferred by her lost Path rating. 
Those Road dots and Achievements are still on her character sheet. She hasn’t actually lost them, 
merely lost access to them until she can regain her way.
It is entirely possible for a Liminal to stumble several times in quick succession, potentially 
sending her plummeting down to an effective Road rating several points below her true rating. 
It’s even possible for the Exalt to knock her effective Road all the way to zero.
Regaining the Road
A Liminal who has lost the Road must find signposts to lead her back to it. While she is lost, she 
cannot gain Journey simply for acting in accordance with the tenets of her Path. Moreover, when 
the character does gain Journey, it isn’t added to her Journey pool. Instead, these points are 
placed into a separate recovery pool.
Once the recovery pool contains five Journey, the Exalt may seek out a revelatory experience as 
though she meant to increase her Road rating (see p. XX), spend the required Journey from her 
recovery pool, and roll her Willpower exactly as though she were trying to attain her true Road
rating for the first time. Success restores a dot of lost Road, while failure leaves her still lost and 
inflicts a point of Limit. A botch provokes a stumble (difficulty 7, or 8 if trying to regain Road
6+). The Journey is spent whether the attempt succeeds or not.
If the character experienced several stumbles and has more than one point of missing Road to 
make up, she must rebuild her accomplishments one point at a time. The difficulty of the 
Willpower roll is always set by her true rating. The higher the Liminal climbs, the harder it is to 
find the Road again after losing it.
In the event that the Liminal’s seeking pool has any Journey left in it after she reclaims her true 
Path rating (usually because she was kept too busy to seek out a revelatory moment for several 
sessions), those leftover points are added to her normal Journey pool. Sometimes there are 
valuable lessons even in failure.
Mistakes
As the Liminal accomplishes a deeper mastery of her Road, so too she gains a greater 
understanding of which acts are not in accord with her journey along the Road Forward.
Unfortunately, Liminals must discover what is and is not a mistake by a process of trial and 
error. A list of universal mistakes are included below, along with the difficulty to recover from 
the resulting stumble:
Difficulty 6-9: Violating one of the tenets of your Path (depending on the severity of the 
trespass)
Difficulty 6: Losing something that mattered because you were dead at the time. Being actively 
discouraged in pursuit of your Road by another character whose opinion you take seriously.
Difficulty 7: Falling into Alienation. Becoming complacent for an entire story and acting as 
though you have already completed the Road Forward. Attempting to follow a tenet of your Path 
but bringing about calamity instead.
Difficulty 8: Discovering that someone who helped you along your Road lied to you or betrayed 
you. Experiencing evidence that your lifeline hates you.
Difficulty 9: Killing your lifeline. Killing another Liminal.
The Road of Ambition
To walk the Road Forward is to move forward: to not only strive for greater things, but for 
greatness itself. The Black Earth Children are not mere wretched outcasts, shunned by the natural 
world for their broken and unfinished state: they are the Liminal Exalted, bastard children of the 
greatest dynasty of power the cosmos has ever known. They are black sheep, to be sure, 
shameful cousins standing at the edge of the array of the Chosen; and yet they are Exalted 
nonetheless.
To be Exalted is to be capable of amazing things. Of growth. Of becoming more. This potential, 
walkers of the Road of Ambition are sure, is what will save them. What will enable them to 
become something else. And so they push at their own limits, seeking to become something 
more glorious, something more Exalted than the wretched half-monster they were born as. Of 
course, there’s no obvious model for what a hero is or should be — the ranks of the Chosen are 
quite diverse — and so the Road of Ambition has many forks and branches, some of them 
leading to dead ends. It matters not; what is a hero without perseverance?
Flesh Aspects come most often and most naturally to this road, driven by their short tempers and 
inclination to violence, but Liminals of all Aspects have tried it at various points. 
Tenets of the Road
These are the tenets of the Road of Ambition, which must be discovered through 
experimentation and refined into a path which leads the Liminal to glory.
First Tenet: Do not be; do.
The Road of Ambition is a Road of action, not contemplation. It demands accomplishment, 
glory, and the attainment of goals. These things are only achieved through vigorous and selfmotivated action. This tenet is simple to grasp but can at times be difficult to live up to. To be 
idle is to accept one’s current, shameful state. The Liminal must cultivate a restless 
dissatisfaction and let it ever drive her onward and upward.
Mistake (difficulty 6): To sit idle is not merely to pause for breath along this Road, it is to deny 
it. Ambitions are not achieved by those who rest. Rest is for those who have gained what they 
seek, and the Liminal has a long way to go. To do otherwise is to admit that there is anything 
acceptable about her current state. Going with the flow, doing nothing, or being without an active 
goal are all ways to stumble along the Road of Ambition.
Second Tenet: Great ambition shape great men.
It is not enough simply to rush about like a lunatic, tilting from whim to whim. The Liminal must 
set for herself particular goals, and these goals must be grand and fitting for one of the Exalted. 
This tenet is almost always discovered through what amounts to play-acting: trying to “act like 
an Exalt” and discovering that it works. The nature of the ambition, at first, is almost irrelevant, 
so long as it is of sufficient scope and grandeur. At the later stages of the Road, a Liminal 
devotes a great deal of time contemplating the meaning of her ambitions and the responsibility 
inherent in deciding to change the world, but early on, it is enough to conceive great things and 
pursue them.
Mistake (difficulty 8): To pin one’s heart on petty matters is to forget the heart of the Road of 
Ambition. To turn aside from great deeds to attend to humble ones is to step off the Road. To 
forsake an ambition as unattainable is to give up on one’s dream entire.
Third Tenet: Be the rider, not the chariot.
It is not enough for a Liminal to join her power to a great cause. The cause must be hers: 
conceived by her and primarily to her own benefit, not a great service to someone else. To 
pursue someone else’s ambition is not a transformative thing, it is the act of a puppet. The Exalt 
is more than a puppet. She is a hero, and heroes carve their own path.
Mistake (difficulty 7): To become a tool for someone else’s agenda is to fall from the Road. To 
discover that the Liminal’s ambitions have been managed and manipulated is to realize she has 
already lost the Road. Interestingly, following grand ambitions to cleanse the Unquiet, despite 
being the agenda Cryptmind set for her children, never count as mistakes for the Road of 
Ambition. Perhaps it is because such activities speak to the heart of Liminal Exaltation.
Fourth Tenet: Strength is truth.
The first hallmark of the Chosen is power. A Liminal following the Road of Ambition must 
cultivate strength and express it. Most important is whatever sort of strength is most applicable to 
pursuing her grand ambition — sometimes this is social power, sometimes martial might — but 
all power is ultimately good, and useful. A Liminal who does not strive to grow stronger has 
stepped off the Road. A Liminal who will not use her Power denies her Road.
Mistake (difficulty 9): To abandon an ambition is contemptible, but to have it taken away by 
superior force is disproof of everything the Road strives for. To have the power to achieve a goal 
but to find a reason not to use it denies the Road as well. These are grave failings, setting other 
concerns above the Liminal’s apotheosis.
Fifth Tenet: Demand your due.
Power is not magnanimous. Power is not humble. Power is not subtle. Power demands 
recognition. If the Liminal performs a job, she will be paid. If she performs a service, she will be 
acknowledged. If she does good works, she expects thanks. If she is met instead with sullen 
stares and mumbling, or with hurled rocks, it falls to her to correct such behavior. To accept it is 
to accept what she is.
Mistake (difficulty 9): Allowing others to treat her like an accursed monster means that the 
Liminal acknowledges being an accursed monster. This is a grave mistake for one remaking 
herself into an Exalted hero.
Milestones
The Road of Ambition is the Road of becoming something greater. The landmarks along its path 
are deeds of glory and heroic accomplishment. Road milestones particular to the Road of 
Ambition include:
• Accomplishing a grand ambition that no average person could ever manage. (One point, once 
per story)
• Doing something the Liminal did not know if she was capable of or not. (One point, once per 
story)
• Overcoming death to accomplish an ambition. (Two points)
• Triumphing over powerful adversity in pursuit of a goal. (One point, once per story)
• Giving up something precious to achieve a goal. (One point, once per story)
• Being hailed as a hero by a relative stranger. (One point, once per story)
• Receiving acknowledgment as a peer from one of the Celestial Exalted. (Two points)
Achievements
As a Liminal progresses along the Road of Ambition, her Essence slowly reshapes itself into 
something more… something greater. She gains the following Achievements when she holds the 
relevant Road rating:
Road 1: The Exalt has one additional Intimacy of her choosing. It must be devoted to the pursuit 
of some grand ambition. Deliberately betraying this Intimacy inflicts 3 points of Limit and is 
always a difficulty 9 stumble.
Road 2: When the Exalt’s anima flares, Intimacies toward her with the specific context of awe 
or respect still function.
Road 3: In addition to the normal responses evoked in those who fail a Willpower roll upon 
seeing her aspect markings, the Liminal now exhibits a fourth potential response: worship. 
Rather than being repulsed, terrified, or driven a violence, a witness may now choose to bow and 
grovel before the terrible supernatural vision before him. The first time per story that someone 
does this, the Liminal loses a point of Limit.
Road 4: By defeating a foe of equal or greater power, the Liminal may purge herself of a 
number of points of Limit equal to that foe’s Essence rating.
Road 5: The Liminal increases her maximum Mote-per-round limit by one, both for standard 
spending and when flaring.
Road 6: At the end of a scene in which the Liminal accomplishes some significant, measurably 
progress toward her ambition Intimacy, she loses a point of Limit.
Road 7: The Liminal gains another Favored Attribute.
Road 8: When the Liminal’s anima flares, she gains one of the following effects (this choice is 
permanent): ignore the rule of 1s on damage rolls; ignore the rule of 1s on soak rolls; or treat 
those who witness her anima as though they had an Intimacy of awe for her.
Road 9: The effects of Divine Disregard no longer apply to the Liminal.
Road 10: The Exalt rewrites Alienation into a different sort of Limit track altogether, using the 
various Great Curse mechanics in this book as a guideline. She removes several Liminal special 
rules of her choice, replacing them with new rules, and becomes a new, one-of-a-kind, unique 
Exalt with additional personal themes layered on top of those of her aspect. See the Exigents 
appendix for further help on devising new kinds of Exalted, which is what the Liminal now 
effectively is. As a thematic consideration, she does not cease being disharmonious with the 
world around her, she is merely disruptive in different ways which express her self-actuation as a 
full-fledged Exalt (such as exhibiting anima flux, perhaps). The Road of Ambition culminates in 
a transformation into something glorious, not something whole or orderly.
Revealing Moments: Meetings with other Exalted, witnessing natural disasters, becoming 
involved with great upheavals, being presented with great opportunities, witnessing terrible 
failures and downfalls, thwarting the grand ambitions of another
Affiliations: Fire, the color blue, the center direction, the House of Journeys
The Road of Assimilation
The primary signifier of the Liminal condition is loneliness. Liminals are outcasts, misshapen 
figures without community or home or family. Their Essence abrades the minds and spirits of 
others, driving them away or stirring them into a frenzy.
The answer, it seems, is to be more human, but what does that mean? Liminals are already made 
of humans, with human memories and emotions. What more is there to learn, or be? Some 
Liminals conclude that the missing ingredient is an understanding of community, of group 
identity, of how to not merely be someone, but to be like everyone else. The pursuit of this idea is 
the foundational activity of the Road of Assimilation, in which the Liminal tries to find ways to 
harmoniously exist within mortal communities or groups without friction or calamity. And so 
these Liminals are joiners: they build houses, join the Guild, or sign on as sailors, and then do 
their best to fit in. It often doesn’t go well, but that just means it’s time for the Liminal to figure 
out what went wrong and why, and then to reinvent herself and try again.
Breath Aspects are the most frequent practitioners of the Road of Assimilation, as it appeals to 
their passive and reflective temperament, but Liminals of all Aspects have tried it with varying
degrees of success.
Tenets of the Road
These are the tenets of the Road of Assimilation, an undiscovered roadmap to becoming one with 
those around the Liminal.
First Tenet: Loneliness is death.
A Liminal’s need for a lifeline provides the first clue to the essential truths of this Road: she is 
not meant to be alone. At its most fundamental level, the Road of Assimiliation is a Road of 
community, of groups coming together as one. If the Liminal isn’t trying to assimilate into a 
group, she’s not walking the Road. She might start small, with something like a group of hill 
bandits, or might try to give herself leeway by disappearing into the giant rat’s warren of Nexus, 
but to accomplish anything on the Road, she must be experimenting with membership in some
sort of group or society. A Circle of Exalts emphatically doesn’t count, as it is a pantheon more 
than a commune, in which no member can sink into obscurity. If the Liminal is off on her own, 
or just adventuring with other supernatural beings, then she is not practicing the Road.
Mistake (difficulty 9): If the Liminal sits outside of communities observing them rather than 
attempting to learn their workings from within, or finds herself without a group and is not 
actively seeking for a new one to join, then she has stumbled and ceased to walk the Road.
Second Tenet: Societies abhor a vacuum.
It’s not sufficient to simply stand quietly in a room full of people and watch them, or to circulate 
the borders of a market fair. The Liminal must not only participate, she must find a place for 
herself. This tenet speaks to two fundamental lessons. The first is that mortals are more likely to 
accept someone once they understand where she fits in the pattern of their lives. If a village has 
no smith, the Liminal may make a place for herself by practicing that trade. If they are plagued 
by bandits, she may become their champion by driving the bandits off. Community means people 
understanding who you are and where you fit. The second is that societies do not trust those 
whose place they don’t understand. They fear and question ambiguity: Who is this person? Why 
are they here? These are questions to be avoided.
Mistake (difficulty 7): If the Liminal is trying to join a group but hasn’t yet carved out a specific 
niche for herself, or isn’t even trying, she has stumbled on the path.
Third Tenet: The forest holds many leaves.
It’s easy for a Liminal to try to leverage her vast Exalted might to buy her way into a community, 
but dangerous. The Road of Assimilation studies the lesson of vanishing from sight, not through 
powers of invisibility, but by becoming indistinguishable from the humans all around the 
Liminal. Posing as a God-Blooded champion, accepting worship, or otherwise elevating oneself 
as a spiritual being within but above the community is a means of finding a place in a group, but 
not as part of the group. The Liminal must learn how to pass herself off as unassuming and 
approachable, else she does not have neighbors, she has supplicants.
Mistake (difficulty 6): This is a fine line to walk. The point where the Liminal passes from 
being a local hero to stumbling on her Road is the moment when one of her peers look at her, not 
as a gifted member of the community, but as a supernatural force set aside from the normal
dictates and strictures of society. A ship’s captain is a part of the ship. A bound demon is not, 
even if it is entirely helpful. If the Liminal enshrines herself as a guardian spirit, she has made an 
error and lost the Road.
Fourth Tenet: Do not assume understanding; question the nature of what you have joined.
The Road of Assimilation isn’t a journey of complacency. The Liminal must understand what 
she has bought into. She must be curious about her neighbors. She must learn the things that 
long-term members of a community know. She must adopt and practice local habits, traditions, 
even accents in time. She needs to know a community’s history, its politics, its power dynamics. 
These are all fundamental elements of a human community; without thoroughly grasping them
and exercising them, the Liminal is merely hiding in plain sight.
Mistake (difficulty 8): Exhibiting no curiosity and exercising no inquiry into a community 
constitutes stumbling on the Road. So does fouling up when exercising that understanding: if a 
Liminal commits a serious faux pas or otherwise enacts some social misstep that reminds others 
she is an outsider, she has also stumbled on the Road.
Fifth Tenet: Your light does not warm the hearth. Hide it.
The Liminal is a horrible, wretched thing. The Road of Assimilation doesn’t seek to test if her 
neighbors will accept an abhorrent thing into their midst. Doing so poisons the roots of the 
community. The Road of Assimilation seeks to transform the Liminal into an upstanding 
member of a community, rather than leaving her as a horrible thing. As such, she must not 
expose her aspect markings to her neighbors. She must not flare her anima for everyone to see. 
She must suppress and deny her nature, striving instead to be as human as she can be. She must 
avoid letting everyone discover what she truly is, while she works to hasten the day when she is 
no longer a hideous thing.
Mistake (difficulty 7): Allowing others to learn what the Liminal is only reinforces that 
abominable state. Each such lapse is a stumble on the Road.
Milestones
The Road of Assimilation is the Road of becoming more human with the aid of others, wittingly 
or unwittingly. Road milestones particular to the Road of Assimilation include:
• Joining a new kind of community or group. (One point, once per story)
• Learning something new about a chosen group. (One point, once per story)
• Making a new friend within a community. (One point, once per story)
• Finding a place in a community and making it her own. (One point, once per story)
• Accomplishing a difficult supernatural struggle without disrupting the Liminal’s “mortal” life. 
(Two points)
• Smoothing over a slip that reveals the Liminal’s nature within a particular community. (Two 
points)
• Sharing in a community’s hardship or woes. (One point, once per story)
Achievements
As a Liminal progresses along the Road of Assimilation, her Essence slowly reshapes itself,
refining her Exaltation into something else… into a proper soul. She gains the following 
Achievements when she holds the relevant Road rating:
Road 1: The Exalt has one additional Intimacy of her choosing. It must be devoted to her current 
community or group. Deliberately betraying this Intimacy inflicts 3 points of Limit and is always 
a difficulty 9 stumble.
Road 2: The difficulty of Willpower rolls made when people behold her aspect markings is 
lowered by –1.
Road 3: At the end of any scene in which the Liminal partakes in a community activity where 
someone is friendly or positive toward her, she loses one point of Limit.
Road 4: The Liminal may sever her link to her Lifeline, instead using her adopted group or 
community as her Lifeline. Charms which function differently in relation to her Lifeline now 
treat every member of the group or community as a Lifeline.
Road 5: The Liminal treats the “home range” of her adopted community or group as a level 1 
Demesne to which she is attuned. Generally this means a town or village, but it might potentially 
be something like a bandit camp, a traveling Guild caravan, or a pirate ship.
Road 6: When the Liminal suffers through a hardship alongside her community rather than using 
her Exalted might to easily alleviate it, she loses two points of Limit.
Road 7: When the Liminal’s anima flares, it doesn’t suppress positive Intimacies toward her in 
members of her adopted community or group.
Road 8: When the Liminal displays her aspect markings, members of her adopted community 
lower the difficulty of their Willpower roll by an additional –1, and also enjoy protection from 
the rule of 1s on the roll.
Road 9: The Liminal is no longer a creature of darkness.
Road 10: The Exalt no longer has a Limit track or aspect markings. Over the course of the next 
several stories, her Charms slowly cease to function until she is left with only Excellence of the 
Black Earth and any Charms which reveal or strike at the Unquiet. She no longer displays an 
anima banner or can cause her anima to flare to empower Excellence of the Black Earth or to 
increase her Motes-per-round limit. She may no longer repair her body by stitching on dead flesh 
to herself. Divine Disregard no longer applies to her. She is, in most respects, mortal, save that 
she still heals like an Exalt and retains a bare few Charms.
Revealing Moments: Being present for a new birth, participating in funeral rites for a 
community member, witnessing someone breach community trust (as through a crime), being 
seriously courted, leaving a lasting mark upon a group or community.
Affiliations: Air, the color brown, the eastern direction, the House of Serenity
HUMANITY: Aspects of Blood who seeks to transcend their incomplete state choose passion as 
their vessel of transformation, attempting to connect to people and to understand life through 
deep emotional experience.
HUMANITY: Aspects of Breath who wish to become something more generally choose the path 
of assimilation: blending into communities and groups, adopting their ways, disappearing into 
the crowd, and ultimately, it is hoped, finding acceptance.
POWER: Flesh Aspects who try to find a path beyond their broken state cleave fast to ambition: 
To move forward and upward is the great impulse of great individuals, and is the vector through 
which these Chosen try to find themselves and their place in the world.
HUMANITY OR POWER: Aspects of Marrow choose insight as the tool through which to attain 
true humanity or perhaps to transcend it. They crack open the surface of ideas, places, people, 
and attempt to understand what lies beneath, what truly drives them, hoping that truth and 
growth will be found in analysis and understanding.
POWER: When these Liminals work to reconcile their unnatural state, they generally do so 
through the path of revelation. Soil Aspects feel that a road waits for them in the world, if only 
they can find and walk it. They interpret omens and attempt to intuit deeper meaning from the 
pattern of their journeys, the places they go, the people they meet, and the things that happen to 
them, and to respond appropriately to become something more than what they are.