General Solar Charms
The following Charms count as Caste Charms for all Solars.
Excellence of the Blazing Sun: (Ability) (•)
By feeding raw Essence into focused endeavor, the Solar may perform feats far beyond the
human norm.
System: Select one Ability when purchasing this Charm. At any time, the player may reflexively
spend 1 Mote to add (the Attribute being rolled + the Ability in question) dice to all rolls using
this Ability for (Essence rating + 1) rounds in combat, or minutes outside of combat.
This Charm can be repurchased to unlock additional Abilities, but Motes must be spent to add
dice to each Ability separately. Solars begin play with all versions of Excellence of the
Blazing Sun which correspond to their Caste and Favored Abilities.
Should the Sun Not Rise (•)
The Solar’s legend and legacy are her own, and though the candle of her life may gutter out, her
works will not vanish when she does.
System: Should the Solar die with at least one point of Willpower remaining to her, the guttering
sparks of her vitality restore her to fitful life at some point during the next three days. She has
only a short time — a few hours at most — before her injuries reclaim her, but may use this very
brief reprieve to locate a hand-selected successor, and, with her final breath, pass her Exaltation
on to the mortal inheritor of her choice. Her chosen successor need not be physically present
when she expires, but if he is not, she must spend a point of Willpower to send her Exaltation to
him.
The newly-Exalted Solar automatically gains Mentor 3 (in the form of the Exaltation’s former
bearer instructing and advising him in his dreams).
A Solar must have Essence 3+ to purchase this Charm.
Final Ray of Light (•••)
Though even her very flesh and divinity falters under the blades and maledictions of a fallen age
turned against her, the Solar rises up one last time in defense of those she loves.
System: If the Solar dies in the course of protecting or fighting for one of her Intimacies, she
immediately returns to life in a blaze of golden Essence. Her Essence pool restores itself to full,
and she heals (Essence rating) levels of damage immediately. Final Ray of Light can only
activate once per story.
Supernal Effect: Upon her resurrection, the Solar swallows her anima into herself, transforming
into an idealized incarnation of her own godhood. She may manifest new clothing, glowing
tattoos, alterations to the appearance and coloration of her hair and eyes, and similarly outlandish
indications that she is far more than mortal. While wearing this ascendant visage, can move two
zones by paying a point of Willpower, and can cut ahead in the battle order (Essence rating)
times per fight without paying Willpower. She increases all of her Attributes by three dots. The
transformation lasts for one scene, then abates.
After assuming her ascendant visage once, the Solar may activate it again in the future with a
turn’s concentration (doing so heals her and replenishes her Essence as though she had revived
with Final Ray of Light), but only once per story, and doing so negates the possibility of using
Final Ray of Light to avoid death during that story. Alternately, she may attempt to enact this
transformation without “using up” the Charm for the rest of the story by spending 2 Motes and
then making a difficulty 9 Essence roll, but in this case she does not heal or replenish her
Essence.
A Solar must have Essence 3+ to purchase this Charm.
Dawn Charms
Accuracy Without Distance (•)
Resonance: Archery, Martial Arts
The Solar may close her eyes before striking, if she desires; she aims with her heart, kills with
her will.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote before making an attack. The attack automatically hits, no
matter how well the opponent defends or how poorly the Exalt rolls; if the dice indicate that the
attack should not strike true, then it hits anyway, with no threshold damage. Accuracy Without
Distance can’t strike through a perfect defense such as Heavenly Guardian Defense, however,
nor can it strike a target if there’s simply no way to reach them (such as if they’re on the other
side of a wall, or outside of a weapon’s maximum range).
Supernal Effect: The first time in a scene the Solar uses this Charm, its normal limitations do
not apply: if she is certain of her target’s location, she may strike him even through solid walls so
long as he is within the weapon’s maximum striking range.
Dipping Swallow Defense (•)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts, Melee, War
The Solar lets instinct guide her defenses, and finds that her blade or fist intercepts every attack
in the moment before it strikes her.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For next (2 + Essence rating) rounds,
each result of 1 rolled on attacks against the Solar by a protagonist subtracts one from that
attack’s base damage while this Charm is active, if she attempts to Parry the attack. Attacks
aimed at her by antagonists which she attempts to Parry instead increase their damage by one
point per three successes rolled rather than the usual two.
Finally, all group attacks that the Solar attempts to Parry while this Charm is active do not add
Size to their Expertise pool or base damage.
Divine Executioner Stance (•)
Resonance: Empathy, Melee
The Solar swears to protect that which she holds most dear, and Heaven stands officiant in
recognition of her convictions. Her attacks ignite with holy fire, rendering wicked men into
wailing ghosts.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Willpower and select one of the Solar’s Intimacies. For the rest of
the scene, whenever the Solar attacks someone who threatens that Intimacy or whose actions or
agenda violates it, her attack and damage rolls lower their difficulty by –1 and increase their base
damage by +3. If she incapacitates or kills such a foe, she gains 1 Mote of Essence.
This Charm may only be activated to protect a particular Intimacy once per story. The Solar may
waive the Willpower cost if she sees a creature of darkness threatening the Intimacy she activates
this Charm to protect.
Supernal Effect: If a Solar strikes someone with an attack enhanced by this Charm, and they do
not move at least one zone away from her on their next turn, then at the end of that round after all
other characters have acted, she may make an extra attack against them, and may keep doing so
in each subsequent round until they attempt to flee from her.
Dragon Coil Technique (•)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts
Those caught in the Solar’s grasp find that it is like being enwrapped in iron chains.
System: The Solar locks herself in a deadly embrace with an opponent, immobilizing them and
wrenching apart their joints one by one. By reflexively paying 1 Mote upon landing a successful
unarmed attack, the Exalt locks herself and her target in place. Unless she voluntarily
relinquishes the power of this Charm, neither can move from the zone they currently occupy
until the Solar has taken another (higher of 1 or Brawl rating) turns. The initial attack inflicts
lethal damage with a bonus to its base damage equal to the Solar’s Strength rating, as do all
subsequent unarmed attacks during the duration of Dragon Coil Technique. While Dragon Coil
Technique persists, the Solar may opt not to roll to attack her target if she desires, instead
automatically scoring (Essence rating) successes with an unarmed attack on each of her turns.
Attacking anyone other than her grappled target immediately ends Dragon Coil Technique. Each
time the Solar is struck by an attack, the duration of Dragon Coil Technique is cut short by one
round.
Supernal Effect: This Charm inflicts aggravated damage against creatures of darkness. At the
end of its duration, the Solar and her target make a reflexive, contested roll of Strength + (Brawl
or Martial Arts) at difficulty 6. If the target doesn’t accumulate more successes, the Solar may
immediately renew Dragon Coil Technique at no cost.
Edge of Morning Sunlight (•)
Resonance: Archery, Melee, Presence
The Solar’s attacks burn the undead, the unholy, and other such creatures of darkness like fire.
System: The Solar may reflexively spend 1 Mote to make all of her attacks for the next (1+
Essence rating) rounds inflict aggravated damage against all creatures of darkness.
Creatures of Darkness
Creatures of darkness include all beings of Hell and the Underworld, such as ghosts
and demons, or whose nature is intrinsically tied to darkness or death. Abyssal,
Infernal, and Liminal Exalted are considered creatures of darkness.
Hauberk-Summoning Gesture (•)
Resonance: Resistance
The Solar extends her limbs and closes her eyes, remembering the weight of her armor, and a
moment later memory becomes reality as she becomes enwrapped in steel.
System: The Solar either spends one turn in concentration to summon a suit of armor she owns
onto herself, regardless of how far away it may be, causing it to appear and enwrap her in a
matter of moments; or else she may reflexively spend 1 Mote to instantly don the armor in a
flash of light, so quickly that it can protect her from a spear already being thrust at her body.
Heaven Thunder Hammer (•)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts
The Solar’s blows land with a crash that sends foes flying like leaves in a hurricane.
System: When the Solar launches a hand-to-hand attack, she may reflexively spend 1 Mote
before rolling to imbue her strike with the latent power of the heavens. The first time in a scene
she uses this Charm, if the strike connects, she regains the expended Mote. The attack increases
its base damage by +3, sends her opponent flying into an adjacent zone, and knocks him prone;
he must climb back to his feet on his next turn, a form of complex movement that leaves him
unable to move to another zone. Additionally, any 10s on the damage roll count as two
successes, as the Solar fortuitously aims her enemy at something hard or dangerous.
Supernal Effect: When in the grip of righteous fury or similar deep passions, the Exalt’s fists
crackle with lightning. Her hands are hard as iron, capable of blocking blades, and her punches
can inflict lethal damage if she wishes. Whenever she makes a Brawl attack against a target in
line with one of her Intimacies (such as to protect the subject of an Intimacy, or to defeat a foe
she truly hates), her blows writhe with lightning, and Heaven Thunder Hammer automatically
triggers at no cost if the attack succeeds. These Heaven Thunder activations are particularly
potent: the opponent can be launched up to one zone per dot of the Solar’s Strength, smashing
through intervening walls and other scenery. 10s count as three successes unless the Solar
deliberately pulls her punches and employs the normal version of the Charm, or opts not to
unleash it at all.
Immortal Armory of the Sun (•)
Resonance: Archery, Melee, Thrown, War
The Solar becomes absolute master of all weaponry, and may even sculpt weapons from her own
anima.
System: With a moment’s concentration and a Wits + (relevant combat Ability) roll (difficulty
6), the Solar can call any weapon she can see into her hand, so long as it’s not actively in
someone else’s possession; by spending a point of Willpower, she can retrieve a weapon in this
fashion reflexively and without the need for a roll. By taking an action and spending 1 Mote, she
can forge any personal-scale mundane weapon she desires out of raw Essence; this weapon
persists for the rest of the scene, but becomes ephemeral and useless in any hands save the
Solar’s own. Created weapons may be anything from a great sword to a brace of throwing
hatchets. Created ranged weapons enjoy effectively limitless ammunition. Alternately, a Solar
may reflexively spend 1 Mote to charge an existing ranged weapon with power, granting it
infinite ammunition for the rest of the scene. Firewands form an exception. Created firewands, or
those firing phantom firedust, require a turn spent in concentration to create additional packets of
phantom firedust after every (Essence rating) shots.
Supernal Effect: The Solar shapes a weapon from the foundations of her very soul, one that
perfectly expresses and encapsulates her as a person and a warrior. She may reflexively call this
weapon to hand at any time, or dismiss it back into the depths of her Essence at no cost. This
weapon is completely indestructible, has the traits of an artifact rather than mundane weapon.
The weapon is always the same every time; if she wishes to create a different weapon (a bow in a
situation where her soul-daiklave will be of little use, for example) she must use Immortal
Armory of the Sun normally.
Rout-Stemming Inspiration (•)
Resonance: War
Leading from the front, the Solar’s example gives heart to her troops and stiffens their resolve
when it wavers.
System: A number of times per scene equal to (her War rating), the Solar may treat a successful
attack against an enemy as also being a successful rally or rally for numbers action (see p. XX),
with a number of successes equal to her successes rolled against her enemy.
Thunderclap Rush Attack (•)
Resonance: Athletics, Brawl, War
The Solar’s Essence rises in reaction to killing intent projected against it, giving her the edge on
her foes.
System: The Solar may reflexively spend 1 Mote to cut ahead and attack before any of her
opponents for the next (highest of Brawl, Martial Arts, or Melee, minimum 1) rounds.
Unassailable Guardian Posture (•)
Resonance: Melee, Resistance
Setting herself to the protection of comrades and innocents alike, the Solar forges herself into an
unbreakable bulwark.
System: When the Solar uses the protect action to defend someone, it is no longer possible for
the first person who attacks her ward in each round to choose to press the attack through to its
original target. They must strike the Solar instead.
Empty Palm Technique (••)
Resonance: Martial Arts, Melee, Thrown
The Solar strikes with the speed of a cobra and the shock of an earthquake, neatly disarming an
opponent and throwing his weapon away.
System: Once per scene, after successfully striking a target, the Solar may forfeit two dice of
damage and declare the target disarmed. Retrieving a disarmed weapon is considered a form of
complex movement that forfeits the target’s ability to move to another zone that round, and
cannot be done if the target is unable to move to another zone for any other reason (such as
having been attacked before his turn). If the Solar forfeits four dice of damage, she may hurl the
disarmed weapon into an adjacent zone, instead.
Disarmed antagonists generally reduce their base damage to 1B. Natural weapons such as claws
and fangs cannot be disarmed.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may simply pay 1 Willpower upon successfully striking an opponent
to disarm her. If she does so, she bypasses the limit of one disarm per scene and needs not
sacrifice damage dice. If she opts to sacrifice two damage dice anyway, the weapon is hurled one
zone away.
Excellent Strike (••)
Resonance: Archery, Martial Arts, Melee, Thrown
The Solar’s attack is simply without flaw, slashing through her enemy’s defenses and cutting
deep or striking true.
System: After successfully striking a target, the player may reflexively spend 1 Mote to lower
the difficulty of the damage roll by –2.
Fire and Stones Strike (••)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts, Thrown
The Solar’s blows burn with the roaring heat of her Essence, striking grievous wounds through
the strongest armor and the most potent defenses.
System: The Solar reflexively spends 1 Mote. For the rest of the round, all of her attacks
increase their base damage by the Solar’s (highest of Strength, Dexterity, or the Ability used to
launch the attack).
Supernal Effect: When the Solar defeats an opponent with Fire and Stones Strike (either by
knocking them unconscious or slaying them), she may opt to describe the ludicrously overkill
method by which they suffer defeat (spiraling through the air and crashing through a pile of
crates, for example; or exploding into four segments separated by a bloody cross hanging in the
air for a moment in the wake of the Solar’s cuts). All enemies who witness this spectacle
increase the difficulty of all actions they take by +1 for the rest of the battle and suffer a –2
penalty to all dice pools. Repeated demonstrations of the Solar’s prowess do not intensify this
penalty.
Hail-Shattering Practice (••)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts, Melee
The Solar pitches herself into her foes’ attacks, meeting aggression with aggression. A clumsy
thrust cannot harm her.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For the rest of the scene, all attacks
directed at the Solar must discard one rolled success, and all attacks by antagonists must roll one
more success than they otherwise would before adding a point to the attack’s damage (usually
meaning that attacks must roll three successes per point of damage added).
Hammer on Iron Technique (••)
Resonance: Brawl
The Exalt seizes up her foe and strikes him with triphammer repetition until there is nothing left
in her grasp.
System: Upon attacking and damaging a foe in the same zone with a hand-to-hand attack, the
Solar sets up a shattering rhythm of repetitious blows. On each subsequent turn in which she
successfully attacks the same target again, cumulatively reduce the difficulty of the attack by one
and add her Essence rating to the attack’s base damage. Thus, on the third consecutive turn of
damaging her foe with a Hammer on Iron sequence, an Essence 3 Solar would attack at –2
difficulty and enjoy a +6 bonus to her base damage. On the fourth turn, she would enjoy a –3
difficulty reduction and a +9 base damage bonus.
Supernal Effect: The Solar’s bare-handed blows also enjoy Hammer on Iron Technique’s
mounting damage bonus when she repeatedly strikes inanimate objects or structures, and may
continue growing indefinitely, so that with enough persistence the Solar may punch through a
fortress wall or smash a vast crater into the middle of the street.
Heavenly Guardian Defense (••)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts, Melee
Focusing her Essence into an unassailable barrier, the Solar may block or parry any single attack
of which she is aware.
System: Once per scene, when faced with an attack or similar form of danger, the Solar may
declare that she perfectly parries it. The attack fails to strike the Solar without any further dice
rolls. Area-of-effect attacks and the like harmlessly splash around her Essence-fueled defense. If
she parries with a mortal weapon, and the attack is either unblockable or ludicrously powerful
(the war-spear of the Unconquered Sun, a Solar Circle death spell, a meteor torn from the
heavens and hurled upon her) then her weapon shatters unless it is itself imperishable. This
defense cannot be invoked against unexpected attacks.
The Solar may reset the limitation of this Charm and make it available again by rolling three or
more results of “10” on a single damage roll. It also resets after she has spent three points of
Willpower during the course of the scene (usually on attack rolls; she can’t spend Willpower on
nothing but resetting Heavenly Guardian Defense).
Supernal Effect: The Solar does not merely protect herself, but rebuffs those so bold as to strike
at her immaculate defenses. Anyone whose attack is quashed by Heavenly Guardian Defense is
knocked prone by an Essence shockwave if they are in the same zone as the Solar; they must
climb back to their feet on their next turn, a form of complex movement that leaves them unable
to move to another zone. The Solar may also reset Heavenly Guardian Defense once per scene
after spending only a single point of Willpower.
Hungry Tiger Technique (••)
Resonance: Archery, Brawl, Melee
When the Solar focuses all her attention on a single foe, her strikes become peerlessly deadly.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. Whenever an attack the Solar makes during the rest of the
round succeeds, count its successes twice when adding them to the attack’s threshold damage.
Supernal Effect: When the Solar takes a moment to concentrate her skills and Essence into a
blow, no mere object of the world may withstand it. The Solar never needs to roll to strike at an
object with a bladed weapon; her blow cleaves through the object as though it were made of
mist, inflicting damage appropriate to the angle of her strike and the length of her blade. This
effect has no regard for how hard an object is, or how strongly warded against damage by magic,
though it will still only cut physical objects, not patterns of magic, logic of the world, or other
ephemera. Her attacks enhanced with Hungry Tiger Technique become unblockable:
protagonists cannot apply their Parry defense, while antagonists lower their Defense by –2
against such attacks.
Sandstorm Wind Attack (••)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts, Melee
The Solar strikes with such swiftness and power that a blur of force erupts from her hand or
weapon, striking down foes far beyond her reach.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, the Solar may direct Brawl, Martial
Arts, and Melee attacks against enemies up to one zone away.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may concentrate all of her power into a particular Sandstorm Wind
Attack. For each Mote she pays, she may extend its range by an additional zone, and may cause
it to target one enemy in each zone it passes through (make one attack roll against the highest
Defense of any targeted enemy). There doesn’t have to be a clear path of attack through the
zones: this attack cuts through walls and obstacles with ease. Furthermore, she may ignore her
normal limitations on Motes spent per round when powering this attack, enabling her to
potentially punch a hole through several buildings or split a ship in twain with a sufficiently
extravagant Essence expenditure.
There Is No Wind (••)
Resonance: Archery, Thrown
Summoning the totality of her concentration, the Solar delivers her attack along a divinely
ordained vector. Distance, wind resistance: these things are of no consequence.
System: If the character spends a point of Willpower to lower the difficulty of a ranged attack,
then that attack gains unlimited range and can strike a target any number of zones away. If the
Solar can see her target, she can kill him.
Supernal Effect: By paying 1 Mote upon making an attack enhanced by this Charm, the Solar
may imbue it with a ferocious payload of destructive Essence. Her shot flashes with lightning
and blazing sunlight, and if it connects, rolls damage against difficulty 4.
War Lion Stance (••)
Resonance: Martial Arts, Melee, Resistance, War
Dedicating herself to the protection of an ally, the Solar becomes a steel-edged shadow, striking
down everything which threatens her comrade.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to apply a protect action to a comrade in the same zone. This
protection continues until one of the characters moves to a different zone.
Fivefold Bulwark Stance (•••)
Resonance: Martial Arts, Melee
Focusing her battle awareness into a preternatural trance, the Solar beholds the violent intent of
her foes as golden traceries forecasting where their attacks will occur.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For the rest of the scene, all attacks
which the Solar attempts to Parry subtract one success from their total rolled, and the Solar’s
Parry value is increased by +2. If this would raise her Defense above 9, her attackers are forced
to discard an additional success from their attacks.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may close her eyes and sense the killing intent of her foes, even
when violence has not yet ensued. Take a turn to concentrate and shut out extraneous stimuli,
then roll Perception + (highest of Archery, Brawl, Martial Arts, Melee, or Thrown) against a
difficulty depending on how hectic and distracting the Solar’s surroundings are (a quiet room
would be difficulty 5, the middle of the Nexus Little Market at noon could be difficulty 8).
Success allows her to open her eyes and perceive anyone who would see her hurt or dead if given
the opportunity as surrounded by a writhing red-black anima.
Lightning Strikes Twice (•••)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts, Thrown
The Solar strikes at a single opponent again and again, shattering their defenses, their bones,
their hopes of victory, until only she remains standing.
System: Reflexively spend 2 Motes upon attacking a target but failing to defeat them. The Solar
may take a second turn after all other characters have acted, using it to launch a second attack at
that target. This Charm costs only 1 Mote if used against a group.
Meteor Storm Affray (•••)
Resonance: Archery, Thrown
Pouring her Essence into a ranged attack, the Solar causes one projectile to become dozens,
blanketing an area in arrows or blades.
System: Spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower and make an Archery or Thrown attack. The Solar makes a
single attack roll against the highest Defense rating in the zone she targets, and applies its result
to everyone in that zone.
Alternately, spend 1 Mote and use the Solar’s turn to launch an Archery or Thrown attack
against a group. Double the attack’s base damage.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may spend three consecutive turns concentrating her Essence into a
single arrow or throwing weapon, spending 2 Motes per turn. At the end of the third and final
turn, after everyone else has acted, she fires her shot or unleashes her weapon, sending it arcing
high into the sky. Any clouds overhead are torn apart and hurled to the distant horizon.
Something gleams like stars in the distant heavens.
The Solar may then define an area as large or as small as she likes, so long as the entirety of the
area is within her immediate line of sight. A storm of golden arrows or blades fall like rain into
that area. For the next (Essence rating) rounds, everyone not under hardened cover in the
condemned area must succeed at a reflexive roll of Dexterity + Athletics against difficulty 9 (or 8
if the character has a shield or is under partial cover) on each of their turns, or else be forced to
soak (half the weapon’s base damage, round up) levels of automatic damage. This damage is
multiplied by four against battle groups, who get no roll to avoid the attack.
Peony Blossom Technique (•••)
Resonance: Archery, Melee, Thrown
The Solar moves like ice on hot metal, like a deadly mirage, like an angry god amidst flying
arrows, bright flashes of steel, and hanging trails of blood spatter.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote upon making an attack that marks off its target’s
Incapacitated health box. The Solar may launch another attack at an enemy within reach of her
weapon at the end of the round, after all other characters have acted. If she incapacitates that
enemy as well, she might potentially invoke Peony Blossom Technique again, attacking
immediately. It can be used a number of times per round equal to the Exalt’s Essence rating.
Alternately, spend 2 Motes and use the Solar’s turn to launch an attack against a battle group.
The difficulty of this attack is lowered by two, and if successful, it adds (rating of Ability used to
attack) levels after rolling damage, before the target applies soak.
Ready in Eight Directions Stance (•••)
Resonance: Martial Arts, Melee, Thrown
The Solar directs Essence into her killing intent until it becomes a deadly guardian angel guiding
her motions by sheer instinct, cutting down those who would strike at her.
System: Spend 1 Mote reflexively to activate this Charm. For the next (1 + Essence rating) turns,
the Solar reflexively counterattacks in response to every attack launched against her: For every 1
rolled on attacks directed against the Solar, the attacker must soak two levels of damage of a type
appropriate to the Solar’s currently-equipped weapon after the attack resolves, if they are within
striking range of the Solar’s weapon. This Charm can’t deal out more damage in response to an
attack than lower of (the Solar’s Essence rating + 2) or the Ability governing the weapon the
Solar is fighting with.
Shockwave Technique (•••)
Resonance: Brawl, Martial Arts
The Solar strikes or throws her opponent, sending them hurtling unto the distant horizon.
System: The Solar spends 2 Motes and makes a Brawl, close-range Martial Arts, or Melee attack
against an opponent within the same zone. For each success rolled, the opponent is knocked one
zone away, smashing through any intervening walls or other obstacles as though they were made
of matchsticks. The attack increases its base damage by +2 per zone traveled, and the target is
knocked prone; he must climb back to his feet on his next turn, a form of complex movement
that leaves him unable to move to another zone.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may reflexively spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower at the end of a round in
which she sent someone flying with Shockwave Technique, after all other characters have acted,
to accelerate at lightning speed through the trail of broken walls and debris left in her target’s
wake, appearing at his feet and immediately targeting him with a second Shockwave Technique.
Tiger Warrior Training Technique (•••)
Resonance: War
By putting groups of soldiers through a dedicated training regimen, the Solar can transform even
a ragtag mob of peasants into Creation’s deadliest fighters in short order.
System: The Solar dedicates herself to leading a group of would-be soldiers through a daily
regimen of drills and training exercises taking up at least one hour over the course of two weeks.
She can dedicate her efforts to the training of a group of up to Size (current Essence rating + 1,
maximum 5) at a time. While she’s actively training a group of Tiger Warriors, her maximum
Mote pool is reduced by one. She can reclaim this capacity by abandoning her students’ training,
but if she does this and returns to their tutelage later, she must start their training over from
scratch.
After two weeks, clueless farmers gain the battle profile of professional soldiers (see p. XX), and
when fighting as a unit enjoy Drill 8. Already-qualified soldiers, even green ones, gain the battle
profile of elite troops and when fighting as a unit enjoy Drill 8. Elite troops subjected to this
training gain the battle profile of Tiger Warriors, and when fighting as a unit enjoy Drill 9. A
group of fighters may be run through this training regimen repeatedly to hone them from
civilians to Tiger Warriors, if the Solar has sufficient time and inclination.
If a protagonist partakes of Tiger Warrior training, then after two weeks of training they may
purchase one dot of Athletics, Archery, Brawl, Martial Arts, Melee, Resistance, Ride, Thrown,
or War as though it were a Favored Ability.
Supernal Effect: Whenever the Solar leads her Tiger Warriors in battle, they treat their Size as
though it were one higher than it truly is for the purpose of all Size-derived modifiers, and enjoy
perfect morale.
Zenith Charms
Clear Mind Discipline (•)
Resonance: Resistance, Survival
Emptying her mind for a few brief and refreshing minutes, the Solar sinks into the deep pool of
her own Essence, and emerges renewed.
System: The Solar may substitute 15 minutes of meditation for a full night’s sleep, leaving her
refreshed and well-rested. She may regain Willpower by this method, but only once per day, and
she cannot “double up” and regain Willpower later by sleeping as well.
Supernal Effect: The Solar is a self-supporting bastion. She may go for up to a month without
food, water, or rest with no ill effects, and 15 minutes of meditation at any point fulfills all of
these needs for up to a month.
Enemy-Castigating Solar Judgment (•)
Resonance: Performance, Presence, War
The Solar’s words burn and sear with righteous truth, laying bare the souls of the enemies of
Creation before her sermons.
System: Creatures of darkness suffer a –3 penalty to all dice pools to resist the Solar’s social and
mind-affecting Charms. Whenever one of the Solar’s social rolls uses a creature of darkness’s
Willpower as its difficulty, reduce the difficulty by –3. If a creature of darkness spends
Willpower to resist or oppose the Solar in any way, they must double the usual Willpower cost to
get any benefit from doing so.
Harmony with Nature Approach (•)
Resonance: Survival
The Solar becomes as one with the natural world. Even the most savage of predators will avoid
rather than attack her. The world offers up shelter from extreme environments merely for the
asking, and finding forage is effortless.
System: The Solar needs never make a Survival roll to remain safe, comfortable, and fed in the
wilderness. The difficulty to feed and protect others in such environments is reduced by –3
(minimum of 3). By spending 1 Mote, she becomes completely immune to environmental
damage for the rest of the scene.
Supernal Effect: All of the effects of Harmony with Nature Approach are permanently active at
no cost, and the Solar has no difficulty operating in environments with no breathable air, or
sensing her surroundings in environments that make doing so difficult or nearly impossible (such
as lightless trenches at the bottom of the sea, or when burrowing deep into a sandy dune). The
Solar may understand animals as though they were able to speak her native language, and beasts
similarly understand her when she speaks.
Iron Kettle Body (•)
Resonance: Resistance
Infusing her body with her sense of discipline, the Solar treats even grievous injuries as mere
nuisances.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, all aggravated damage the Solar
suffers becomes lethal damage instead; all lethal damage becomes bashing damage; and when
she suffers bashing damage, she halves it (round down) after soak.
Listener-Swaying Argument (•)
Resonance: Empathy, Presence, Socialize
The Solar’s words burn with conviction, striking through the cynicism and doubt of any who
listen.
System: By spending 1 Mote, the Solar’s words become impossible to ignore, and she reduces
the difficulty of all social rolls by –2 (to a minimum of 3) for the rest of the scene.
Supernal Effect: Select a social Attribute (Charisma, Manipulation, or Appearance). The Solar
is a living exemplar of beauty, or of being larger-than-life, or of finding exactly the right thing to
say at exactly the right time. All rolls using the selected Attribute permanently reduce their
difficulty by –2.
Ox-Body Technique (•)
Resonance: Athletics, Resistance, War
The Solar’s body is fortified with divine power, enabling her to survive grievous injuries.
System: The character permanently gains an additional set of (–0), (–1), and (–2) health levels.
This Charm can be purchased a number of times equal to the higher of the character’s Stamina or
Resistance ratings.
Phantom-Conjuring Performance (•)
Resonance: Performance
When the Solar tells a story, enacts a performance, or simply engages in dramatic actions while
her anima is flaring, it spawns brief-lived and clearly unreal golden phantoms to play out her
tale, emphasize her actions, or otherwise act as props. She might conjure a phantom partner for a
dance, emphasize a mighty blow by surrounding herself with a larger-than-life roaring tiger, or
cause her anima to unfold behind her as blazing golden wings to emphasize her divine nature.
System: This Charm is active whenever the Exalt’s anima is flaring. Creative use of PhantomConjuring Performance can lower the difficulty of some Performance actions by one when
accompanied by a dramatic stunt at the Storyteller’s discretion; it is otherwise simply a means of
visual emphasis and roleplaying.
Respect Commanding Attitude (•)
Resonance: Performance, Presence
The Solar fixes her audience’s attention upon her with the golden nail of her Essence. While they
may not like or believe what she has to say, nor enjoy her performance, they will neither leave
her presence, heckle her, nor cease paying attention to her before she’s had her say.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll (Charisma or Appearance) + Performance against difficulty 3.
Anyone whose Willpower or Resolve rating is equal to or lower than the successes rolled falls
under this Charm’s sway until the end of the Solar’s performance. They can still be distracted by
violence or urgent demands such as someone stealing their coinpurse.
Righteous Lion Defense (•)
Resonance: Presence, Resistance
The Solar fortifies her convictions with the very fabric of the cosmos, making an invincible
fortress of her heart.
System: Any attempt to cause or force the Solar to betray, undermine, or abandon her Intimacies
automatically fails.
Rose-Lipped Seduction Style (•)
Resonance: Performance, Presence, Socialize
The Solar’s movements answer the needs of those around her. Her smile evokes carnal dreams
whose fulfilment seemed impossible until that moment. She becomes a figure of intense desire,
breaking every heart that beholds her and remaking it anew in the next moment, twice what it
was before.
System: Spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, all Appearance rolls are made at –2 difficulty.
Anyone the Solar favors with a smile or a kind word may voluntarily accept a temporary
Intimacy of lust for her for the rest of the story, so long as they don’t already have one; doing so
restores two points of Willpower to protagonists, and increases the Resolve of antagonists by +1
for the rest of the story.
Body-Mending Meditation (••)
Resonance: Resistance
The Solar may heal at an accelerated rate by resting.
System: So long as she takes no strenuous activity, the Solar heals all bashing damage or one
level of lethal damage per hour of rest. Twelve hours of rest mends one level of aggravated
damage.
Supernal Effect: The Solar’s body knits itself back together quickly enough to be seen by the
naked eye. She heals one level of bashing damage per turn, and one level of lethal damage per
minute if exerting herself, or all lethal damage if she rests and takes no actions for a full minute.
Every 15 minutes, she heals one level of aggravated damage, regardless of her activity levels.
Hypnotic Tongue Technique (••)
Resonance: Empathy, Linguistics, Performance, Presence
By using nothing more than a steady patter of dialogue, the Solar can lull someone into a
hypnotic trance and then talk them into doing whatever she wishes.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Manipulation + (Empathy or Presence) against a difficulty of
the target’s Willpower rating. One or two successes will allow the Solar to command her target
to do anything that doesn’t seem tremendously unusual or out of character. With three or four
successes, she can command the target to do anything that doesn’t endanger himself or a loved
one. With five or more successes, the target will risk his life and the lives of others at the Solar’s
command. The target will be aware his actions are unusual and inexplicable afterwards, unless
the Solar spends an additional 1 Willpower. In this case, the target will rationalize his actions to
the best of his ability.
Hypnotic Tongue Technique cannot hypnotize a target into harming or killing himself, compel
him into certain death, or force him to betray his Nature. Protagonists targeted by this Charm
may spend 1 Willpower to escape its effects for a scene if they can cite an Intimacy that it is
forcing them to act against. Spending a number of points of Willpower equal to the Solar’s
Essence rating breaks the Charm’s hold.
Supernal Effect: With five or more successes, the Solar can hypnotize her victim into harming
or killing himself, compel him into certain death, or force him to betray his Nature.
Immunity to Everything Technique (••)
Resonance: Resistance
The Solar gains the hardiness of the very gods themselves.
System: Poison and disease can no longer harm the character in any way whatsoever.
Integrity-Protecting Prana (••)
Resonance: Empathy, Resistance
Fortifying her will with Essence, the Solar throws off any attempt to control or beguile her.
System: Reflexively spend 2 Motes to become immune to all thought and emotion-altering
magic for the rest of the scene. If used in response to an attempt to use such magic upon the
character, the Solar gains 1 Limit.
Inviolable Essence Bastion (••)
Resonance: Empathy, Lore, Resistance
Sinking into a meditative state, the Solar becomes utterly immune to worldly concerns. So long
as her concentration remains unbroken, she is invincible.
System: The Solar takes a moment to sink into a lotus posture, empty her mind, and close out the
world around her. Spend 2 Motes and roll Willpower against difficulty 8. Success allows the
Solar to maintain an invincible meditative state for one hour. While meditating, she cannot take
any voluntary actions, including deliberate thought or planning, and is completely immune to all
damage of any kind. Attempts to strike her deflect harmlessly off of the momentarily-visible
golden barrier of her anima. She cannot drown, suffocate, or otherwise suffer any physical harm
of any kind. If the Solar wishes to extend her meditation beyond the first hour, she must pay 1
Willpower point at the beginning of each additional hour.
This Charm doesn’t protect the Solar from attacks on her mind or spirit, such as possession by a
ghost, a sorcerer attempting to control her mind, or even an ordinary person attempting to talk
her into abandoning her meditations to act upon some pressing concern.
Supernal Effect: Inviolable Essence Bastion lasts for a number of hours equal to the successes
rolled on the Willpower roll. By paying a point of Willpower, the Solar may extend this Charm’s
duration for as long as she can go without food, drink, or sleep. One Zenith holy man survived
for three years during the Usurpation under the auspices of this Charm, until the head of his
Lunar wife was presented before him and he accepted at last that no help would ever come. In
the moment that a tear formed at the corner of his eye, he was beheaded by Rakan Thulio.
Iron Skin Concentration (••)
Resonance: Resistance
The Solar fortifies her body with Essence, making her skin as tough as steel.
System: Reflexively spending 1 Mote allows the Solar to change her soak pool calculation to
(Stamina + Resistance + armor’s Soak value) for the rest of the scene. She may also reflexively
spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower to make soak rolls at –2 difficulty (generally meaning she rolls at
difficulty 4 rather than the normal 6) until the end of the round.
Supernal Effect: The Solar’s hardened flesh simply shrugs off all incidental wear and tear as
she moves through the world. If an attack or effect would inflict only a single level of bashing or
lethal damage on the Solar (either before or after soak), then she receives no damage at all.
Ruin-Abasing Shrug (••)
Resonance: Resistance
Suppressing merely mortal limitations with a forceful circulation of Essence and harnessed
breathing techniques, the Solar rises above the pain of her injuries.
System: Reduce all wound penalties by –1. Reflexively pay 1 Mote or 1 Willpower to ignore all
wound penalties for the rest of the scene.
Saga Beast Virtue (••)
Resonance: Empathy, Survival
The Solar may pour the might of her Essence into her Familiar, briefly transforming it into a
god-beast of the battlefield.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to trigger a dramatic transformation in the Solar’s Familiar,
causing it to swell into a divine beast of legend. The transformation grants the familiar +2 to its
Expertise pool, +1 base damage, and +1 soak, along with three –0 health levels, which do not
heal or record damage received, but rather are simply destroyed for the rest of its current
transformation if damaged.
Undying Solar Resolve (••)
Resonance: Empathy, Presence, Resistance
The Solar roots her sense of self deep in her Essence, fortifying her will against all that might
assail it.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, Willpower rolls are not subject to
the rule of 1s, and count results of 9 and 10 as two successes. If such a roll fails anyway (or is
defeated in a contested roll), the Solar gains a point of Limit as the pillar of her confidence is
cracked.
Unshakeable Bloodhound Technique (••)
Resonance: Awareness, Survival
No force can evade the Solar once she’s picked up her quarry’s trail.
System: Once the character finds some evidence of a trail to follow, her player may spend 1
Mote to perfectly track the target for the next 24 hours. No roll is needed. If she knows she’s
tracking a creature of darkness, this Charm’s Mote cost falls to 0.
Adamant Skin Technique (•••)
Resonance: Resistance
Focusing her Essence into her body, the Solar becomes momentarily indestructible.
System: Once per scene, after being struck by an attack or similar form of danger, the Solar may
declare that she is unharmed by it. The Solar suffers no damage from the attack or hazard, but is
still considered to have been hit.
The Solar may reset the limitation of this Charm and make it available again by incapacitating an
opponent or causing a group to lose a point of Size.
Supernal Effect: The Solar’s perfect form breaks whatever has the temerity to strike her. If she
uses this Charm and the attack’s base damage is lower than the Solar’s Resistance, then the
weapon used to strike her shatters into a million pieces (for antagonists, double their base
damage before making this comparison). Unarmed blows which meet these criteria instead inflict
one level of bashing damage to the attacker.
Demon-Wracking Shout (•••)
Resonance: Performance, Presence
The Solar can bellow forth a wordless but divine cry of condemnation, shattering the resolve of
the unholy.
System: Spend 1 Mote and roll Charisma + Performance against difficulty 6. All creatures of
darkness who hear the Demon-Wracking Shout lose 1 point of Willpower (or 1 Resolve) per
success rolled. If this reduces them to 0 Willpower (or Resolve) or less, they must flee from the
Solar in a blind stew of panic and self-loathing for at minimum the Solar’s Essence rating in
minutes. If the Solar’s Essence rating is higher than the creature of darkness, they run until they
collapse of exhaustion.
This Charm can only be used once per scene.
Essence-Gathering Temper (•••)
Resonance: Resistance
The Solar learns to take the pain and fury she feels when wounded and strike them against her
Exaltation, producing brilliant sparks of power.
System: Whenever the Solar suffers three or more levels of bashing damage at once, or two or
more levels of lethal damage, or any aggravated damage, she may reflexively spend a point of
Willpower and gain her Essence rating in Motes of Essence.
Fervent Missionary-Uplifting Practice (•••)
Resonance: Presence, Performance
By putting a mortal through a dedicated training regimen, the Solar can prepare him to carry out
works of faith and inspiration. In little more than a week, a Solar with this Charm can transform
a group of criminal wastrels into devout holy men, mendicants, eremites, preachers, priests,
leaders, and propagandists.
System: The Solar dedicates herself to educating a group of students, stoking the fires of their
fervor with her sermons and challenging their dedication through ordeals which she oversees.
This takes up at least one hour every day over the course of two weeks. She can dedicate her
efforts to the training of a group of up to Size (current Essence rating, maximum 5) at a time.
While she’s actively training a group of students, her maximum Mote pool is reduced by one.
She can reclaim this capacity by abandoning her students’ training, but if she does this and
returns to their tutelage later, she must start their training over from scratch.
After two weeks, disorganized rabble gain an Expertise pool of 5 and an Aptitude for one of the
following: Demonstrations of faith, leadership, oratory, prayer, propaganda, sermons, or
spreading the faith. Already-competent priests, missionaries, dogmatics, and so on instead gain
an Expertise pool of 7. Experts in the Solar’s class advance to an Expertise pool of 9. A group of
students may be run through this training regimen repeatedly to hone them from complete
indolence to Fervent Missionaries, or to branch them out into multidisciplinary mastery, if the
Solar has sufficient time and inclination.
If a protagonist partakes of Fervent Missionary training, then after two weeks of training they
may purchase one dot of Empathy, Presence, Performance, Lore, Survival, or Resistance as
though it were a Favored Ability.
Majestic Radiant Presence (•••)
Resonance: Presence
The Solar dons the authority of kings and burns with the incandescent glory of the sun. It
becomes nigh-unthinkable to belittle or deny her in any way, much less actively oppose her in or
raise a hand against her.
System: The Solar spends 2 Motes. For the rest of the scene, whenever anyone seeks to oppose
her in any respect, either socially or physically, they must make a Willpower roll against a
difficulty of the Solar’s (Charisma + Presence) or else abort their action and bow their head in
shame at their own temerity, ending their current turn. Characters may still defend against the
Solar’s attacks.
Supernal Effect: Majestic Radiant Presence is always in effect when the Solar directly acts to
support or defend an Intimacy.
Memory-Reweaving Discipline (•••)
Resonance: Empathy, Performance
Focusing her will and her words, the Solar may rewrite the memories of another.
System: Spend 2 Motes while detailing the subject’s new memories and roll Manipulation +
Performance, resisted by the target’s Willpower (both at difficulty 6). The subject’s memories
can be rewritten based on the number of successes left after subtracting the result of the opposed
Willpower roll:
1 success: The events of a recent scene can be rewritten.
2 successes: The events of a recent day can be rewritten.
3 successes: A single pivotal memory in the subject’s life can be rewritten. Alternately, entire
weeks of the subject’s past can be written so long as they’re not crucial to the substance of her
life or identity.
4 successes: A major feature of the subject’s life can be rewritten (such as who they’re married
to, where they grew up, or whether the Solar is a hated enemy or their childhood friend).
5+ successes: The subject can be given an entirely new history.
Terrible Sun King Condemnation (•••)
Resonance: Lore, Presence
The Solar castigates her enemy as a foe to Creation and villain in the eyes of all upright
individuals, crushing them beneath the weight of her disdain and casting a pall over them which
becomes obvious to everyone they meet.
System: The Solar spends 2 Motes and rolls Charisma + (Presence or Performance) against a
difficulty of the target’s Willpower rating. The target may attempt to rebut the Solar’s words by
spending a point of Willpower and making a (Charisma or Manipulation) + (Empathy,
Linguistics, Presence, or Socialize) roll of his own, at a difficulty of the Solar’s Willpower. If he
neglects to do so, or fails to gain more successes than the Solar, then he is condemned and
accursed. Everyone who meets the target knows instinctively that he is a wretch and a scoundrel;
the difficulty of all his social rolls increase by +2, and people distrust him on general principle.
This condemnation lingers for the Solar’s Essence rating in weeks. She can extend this by one
additional week per extra Mote spent to activate this Charm.
Supernal Effect: While Terrible Sun King Condemnation is in effect, the target is also
considered a creature of darkness if they were not one already. This additional effect only
activates if the Solar truly considers the individual to be villainous, wicked, or loathsome,
however; while she can ruin reputations on a whim, the Exalt cannot brand anyone as
metaphysically evil simply for the sake of convenience.
You Can Be More (•••)
Resonance: Empathy, Linguistics, Performance
Drawing someone aside, the Solar speaks with eloquence and conviction of the wonders she’s
seen and the potential for the world to be something more and better than what it is. Her words
are seeds brimming with Essence, and may take root in the soul of the listener, blossoming into
wisdom and power.
System: The Solar spends 2 Motes when making an attempt to instill a temporary Intimacy into
someone (see p. XX). If the attempt succeeds, a true Intimacy rather than a temporary Intimacy
is formed. Antagonists will generally keep this Intimacy permanently unless the events of the
story convince them to abandon it. Protagonists can reject the formation of this Intimacy by
spending 3 Willpower. If a protagonist has more than her maximum allotment of Intimacies at
the end of a story, she must choose which Intimacies to discard until she is back down to her
normal number of Intimacies.
An individual can’t be targeted with this Charm more than once per story.
Twilight Charms
Anodyne of Celestial Dreaming (•)
Resonance: Empathy, Medicine, Occult
The Exalt may journey into her patient’s mind, thereby confronting and defeating injuries to her
psyche and demons that haunt her dreams.
System: Spend 2 Motes while sitting beside a sleeping patient to descend into the depths of her
mind. Once within, the Solar may examine her patient’s mind with Perception + Medicine
against a difficulty of the patient’s Willpower to determine the presence and nature of any
Derangements, as well as to detect if her memories or personality have been tampered with by
hostile magic. Such altered thoughts or memories (as those created with Hypnotic Tongue
Technique or Memory-Reweaving Discipline) can be corrected with a difficulty (patient’s
Willpower) Intelligence + Medicine roll. Each such treatment takes one hour. Derangements may
be exorcised with another such roll. This ends the treatment, awakening the Solar from her trance
and creating a hostile spirit which immediately attacks her.
Spirit of Madness
Aptitudes: Attack, frighten, convince others to give up on the patient from whom
the spirit originated.
Expertise: 8; Utility: 3
Base Damage: 2L
Defense: 6; Soak: 1
Resolve: 9; Essence: 1
Health: –0x5/-2x5/Incap
Powers
The following powers are permanently active:
Homeward Bound: The spirit can always sense the location of the person it was
excised from. If it can gain access to them while they are asleep, it may spend one
hour re-insinuating itself into their mind, restoring their Derangement.
Savage Spirit: The spirit always initiates violence, no matter how well prepared
others are for its appearance.
The following powers are limited. The spirit of madness may use precisely one of
the powers listed below during each round:
Principle of Motion: The spirit of madness makes one extra attack at the end of
the turn, after all other characters have acted.
Dematerialize: The spirit of madness may, with three turns of intense
concentration, become dematerialized. It can only use this power once per week,
and may reflexively resume a materialized state at any time. It cannot dematerialize
during the scene of its creation.
Burning Eye of the Deliverer (•)
Resonance: Awareness, Investigation, Lore, Occult
The Solar’s searing gaze burns through supernatural deceptions and cuts through to the truth.
System: The character may spend 1 Mote to pierce supernatural disguises and transformations
for the rest of the scene. If another character is using magic to appear to be someone or
something she is not, the Solar automatically sees through their disguise. This pierces deceptions,
not attempts at hiding. Thus, it could see through Flawlessly Impenetrable Disguise, but not
Vanishing From Mind’s Eye Method. Burning Eye of the Deliverer sees the true face of Lunars
in a form from their shapeshifting library (though it detects nothing out of place if they are
wearing any of their true forms), and will detect spirits possessing a person.
Chaos-Resistance Preparation (•)
Resonance: Craft, Lore
The Solar’s works and blessings provide protection from the corrosive touch of the Wyld.
System: Anything the Solar makes is eternally immune to being transformed or tainted by
exposure to the Wyld. The Solar may also lay her hand on an object, spend 1 Mote, and roll
(Intelligence + Lore) against difficulty 7. The object is protected from the Wyld for one month
per success.
Alternately, the Solar may construct a vessel designed to offer protection from the Wyld,
spending 1 Mote at the beginning of each session of working to construct it and increasing the
difficulty of all rolls to make the vessel by 1. “Vessels” may be containers such as crates, jars, or
barrels designed to hold other goods (which are protected while inside), vessels such as wagons
or ships (which protect the people and goods within), or clothes or barding for animals (which
protect those who wear them). Such protections remain efficacious for a number of years equal
to the Solar’s Essence rating, after which they are merely ordinary crates, wagons, and clothes.
Supernal Effect: Blessings of protection granted with this Charm last for one year per success
rather than one month. Protective vessels retain their potency for a number of centuries equal to
the Solar’s Essence rating, rather than years.
Crafty Observation Method (•)
Resonance: Investigation
The Solar may observe a scene to its minutest detail in a matter of seconds.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to compress a scene’s worth of observation into the time it
takes to draw in a deep breath, allowing for such feats as a reflexive Perception + Investigation
roll while running through a room at a full sprint.
Essence-Lending Method (•)
Resonance: Empathy, Lore
By touching another Exalt or other supernatural being, the Solar may grant them a gift of her
Essence.
System: Spend an action touching another character and spend as many Motes as desired. The
recipient gains those Motes if they are able.
This Charm’s cost does not count against the Exalt’s Motes-per-turn limit.
Ghost-Eating Technique (•)
Resonance: Occult
The Solar wields the ancient art of destroying the eternal. This was the dread Charm which slew
the enemies of the gods and made of them the Neverborn.
System: When the Solar slays a god, elemental, ghost, demon, or other sort of spirit, the player
can reflexively roll Wits + Occult (difficulty 4 + the target’s Essence rating). Success tears the
spirit’s Essence apart, preventing them from ever reforming and destroying them forever. The
Solar gains 3 Motes on the spot.
Supernal Effect: The Solar is a godslayer. If she wishes it to be so, any spirit that looks upon
her knows, beyond a shadow of a doubt, that they behold a being capable of casually ending their
existence. When her caste mark shines, she cannot hide this knowledge even if she wishes to.
When she ends a being’s existence forever with Ghost-Eating Technique, a shockwave ripples
out that causes all spirits that witness the destruction to lose 3 Resolve for the rest of the story as
the outer fragments of their power are drawn out and sucked into the momentary void the Solar’s
act has left in the substance of the universe. The Solar, in turn, gains an additional Mote of
Essence if any bystanders are affected in this way. Spirits cannot be traumatized in this fashion
more than once per story.
Material Exegesis Prana (•)
Resonance: Occult
The Solar steeps the air in her lungs in a boiling cauldron of divine authority, then speaks a short
phrase of resonant power which bestows substance to the unreal and solidity to the divine.
System: Spend a turn formulating the phrase and speaking it. Any spirit who hears the Solar
utter this phrase may repeat it himself, drawing upon its power to immediately materialize and
remain in that state for up to the next (Solar’s Essence rating) days without paying any of the
normal costs of the Materialize power, or indeed needing to possess that power at all. However,
repeating the phrase also creates a temporary Intimacy of reverence for the Solar that lasts for the
rest of the story.
Supernal Effect: Spirits must make a difficulty 9 Willpower roll not to repeat the Solar’s words
of power upon hearing them.
Order-Affirming Blow (•)
Resonance: Lore
Taking up the foundational principles of Creation in her fist, the Solar wields causality,
mathematics, history, and law as hammer and chisel, shattering the corrosive dreams of the
Wyld, the warping effects of sorcery, and the entangling threads of engineered destiny and
leaving behind only the original form of a child of Creation.
System: Spend 2 Motes, 1 Willpower, strike the target, and roll Intelligence + Lore against
difficulty 9. Each success removes one distinct change on the target imposed by the Wyld or
transformative magic such as a sorcerous working or the Lunar Charm Blood-Reshaping
Technique. Alternately, this Charm can be used to knock the influence of one instance of
Sidereal Astrology or Getimian Alchemy off of a target (if aimed against a Resplendent Destiny,
that destiny is destroyed and the Sidereal gains a point of Paradox. If the same is done to a
Getimian, her current Alchemy formula is disrupted and loses its power for the rest of the story.)
Spirit-Detecting Glance (•)
Resonance: Occult
The character may attune her senses to otherworldly emanations, glimpsing the ghosts as they
haunt their graves and the gods in their temples. Having seen such spirits, she may also strike
them.
System: Spend 1 Mote. The Solar may see dematerialized beings and the entrance of spirit
sanctums for the rest of the scene. She may also physically interact with dematerialized beings,
including attacking them.
Terrestrial Circle Sorcery (•)
Resonance: Occult
The Solar has been initiated into the practice of sorcery. She can cast Terrestrial Circle spells and
enact sorcerous workings. Purchase of this Charm grants one shaping ritual and one Terrestrial
Circle spell.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
All-Encompassing Sorcerer’s Sight (••)
Resonance: Occult
The Solar attunes her senses to the subtle flows of Essence itself, sensing its active
manifestations in the form of what mortals call magic.
System: The Solar can roll Perception + Occult against difficulty 7 to survey the Essence of the
world around her. Depending on the number of successes rolled and the presence of anything
interesting to detect, she might uncover things like the radiance of a nearby Manse or Demesne, a
subtle but active spell or sorcerous working, or the fact that a ferocious amount of Essence was
spent in the area sometime recently. She can also discern particular profiles, flavors, or “colors”
of Essence if she has encountered them before, and thus might use this Charm to track a missing
Circlemate by the trail of his expended Essence.
Celestial Circle Sorcery (••)
Resonance: Occult
The Solar has been initiated into the mighty workings of the Celestial Circle of sorcery. She can
cast Celestial Circle spells. Purchase of this Charm grants one shaping ritual and one Celestial
Circle spell.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
A Solar must have Essence 3+ to purchase this Charm.
Chaos-Repelling Pattern (••)
Resonance: Lore
The Solar draws a fortifying pattern of Essence to protect her from hostile curses and
transformations.
System: Whenever the character is the subject of any supernatural power that seeks to transform,
infect, taint, transport, or control her body or spirit, or to alter her destiny or her place in the
world (such as by magically altering her Backgrounds), she may reflexively spend 1 Mote and
roll Wits + Occult against difficulty 7. Success shatters the hostile magic, protecting the Solar
completely, and immunizes her against repeated attempts to exert the same sort of influence for
the rest of the scene.
Contagion-Curing Touch (••)
Resonance: Medicine
Even in the absence of proper medicines, the Solar may use the purity of her Essence to burn out
the most persistent and powerful of diseases.
System: The Solar needs merely lay her hands on a patient, spend 1 Mote, and roll Intelligence +
Medicine. The difficulty is 6 for serious mundane illnesses, 7 for normally-incurable mundane
diseases such as cancer or leprosy, 8 for supernatural maladies, and 9 for the Great Contagion.
Success immediately burns out the disease, leaving the patient cured.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may spend 3 Motes and make an Intelligence + Medicine roll to
banish a particular disease or malady. If she succeeds, then for the rest of the scene, anyone
touched by the radiance of her anima banner is cured of that illness.
Craftsman Needs No Tools (••)
Resonance: Craft
The Solar is a genius with her hands, able to improvise whatever works of craftsmanship she
may need in even the most adverse of circumstances. Give her a cave and a box of scraps, and
she can make just about anything.
System: The Solar can work ten times faster than normal when creating, modifying, or repairing
something. By spending 1 Mote, she can forego any need for tools until she stops working, as
well.
Supernal Effect: If working in relative seclusion without distractions from the outside world,
the Solar may not only waive the Essence cost to work without tools, she may dream up a dozen
or so assistants, up to hundred unskilled laborers, and specialized machinery such as cranes oxdrawn plows from the depths of her anima to assist her with her work. This allows her to work
twenty times faster than normal, and to undertake projects that should be impossible for a lone
craftswoman to attempt. These phantoms vanish if the world intrudes on the Solar’s labor-trance
to any greater degree than, say, a Circlemate stepping in to leave her a cup of tea and some
lunch.
Heaven-Turning Calculations (••)
Resonance: Lore
Though she may not be the strongest, fastest, or most skilled, the Solar can make up for all other
deficiencies with her lightning acumen and precise analytical abilities.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to substitute Intelligence in place of any other Attribute, or
Lore in place of any other Ability for the next (1 + Essence) turns, or (1 + Essence) minutes
outside of combat. Alternately, by spending 1 Mote and 1 Willpower, the Exalt can roll
Intelligence + Lore in place of another specific Attribute + Ability pool for that duration.
Supernal Effect: The Solar is connected, in the depths of her soul, to the wellspring of all
knowledge. By meditating for an hour and descending deep into the archive of human
accomplishment, she may make an Intelligence + Lore roll to retrieve a desired knowledge-based
Ability (difficulty 6), or skill-based (difficulty 8). She gains a number of dots in the retrieved
Ability equal to the successes rolled (to a maximum of 5) until she next sleeps or meditates.
Incalculable Flowing Mind (••)
Resonance: Investigation, Lore
The Solar encounters an obstacle or mishap, but thanks to her canny foresight, has already
anticipated such difficulties in advance and planned for them accordingly.
System: Once per scene, the Solar may reflexively spend 1 Mote to re-roll a failed or botched
roll, keeping the preferred result. Her player must describe how the Solar anticipated the
difficulty that faces her and planned ahead for it in advance. Alternately, the player can spend 1
Willpower to retroactively declare that the Solar brought along some useful bit of equipment (or
performed a useful bit of research), and has had it with them all along, so long as this isn’t
clearly in violation of the established scene. For example, a Solar might have smuggled a knife
or set of lockpicks into a high-society gala, but she definitely hasn’t been toting around a grand
daiklave unnoticed and unremarked all evening.
Supernal Effect: When the player spends Willpower to retcon the scene, she may cite one or
more of the Solar’s Backgrounds and call upon some truly implausible or significant bit of
foresight: she had one of her Contacts stow her faithful yeddim Familiar within the grounds, or
courier she hired with her Resources arrives at that moment and delivers her grand daiklave.
Irresistible Questioning Technique (••)
Resonance: Investigation
The Solar focuses her Essence into an interrogatory beam, compelling answers from those she
puts to the question.
System: The Solar may ask someone a question, spend 1 Mote, and make a contested roll of
Charisma + Investigation against their Willpower (both at difficulty 6). If the Solar gains more
successes, the target is compelled to answer honestly. Their only alternatives if they cannot or
will not do so are to flee from the Solar’s presence or attack her to make her shut up and stop
interrogating them. If they can do neither (for example, because they are tied to a chair), they
must answer.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may use this Charm at no cost whenever interrogating someone who
is unable to leave her presence (for example, a prisoner in a jail cell, or someone whose throat
she is holding a sword to).
Wound-Mending Care Technique (••)
Resonance: Medicine
The Solar’s ministrations grant health and hardiness with a speed and efficiency unknown to
mortal medicine.
System: After a mere scene of treating and ministering another character, the Solar may spend 2
Motes and roll Intelligence + Medicine against difficulty 6. Her patient heals one lethal or two
bashing damage per success, or one aggravated damage per two successes.
Supernal Effect: The Solar is the archetypal healer behind every prayer ever uttered by the sick
and the dying, the deliverer of woes. The difficulty of all Medicine rolls are permanently lowered
by –2, but moreover, if the Solar arrives with the intent to render aid (medical or otherwise), she
needs only say something along the lines of “I’m here to help,” and anyone who hears her is able
to perfectly and unerringly gauge the sincerity and intent of her words, even if they don’t speak
the language she utters them in.
All-Knowing Enlightened Sovereign (•••)
Resonance: Lore
The Solar closes her eyes and aligns her perceptions with the cumulative wisdom of the cosmos
as a whole. Her insight momentarily touches on the vast annexes of Heaven, the drifting
memories of the dead, and even the dread secrets of the lords of Hell. In that moment, no insight,
no leap of understanding, is beyond her grasp.
System: Using this Charm requires at least a minute of undisturbed concentration and the
expenditure of 3 Motes, 1 Willpower. The Solar may make an Intelligence + Lore roll to recall a
fact as though she were consulting a library containing the accumulated lore of all that is,
regardless of the particulars of her own education and knowledge-base. The difficulty is set by
the obscurity of the knowledge sought. The more successes rolled, the more detailed the answer
the Solar gains.
All-Knowing Enlightened Sovereign is of great use in probing topics of scholarly interest, but
cannot return more than the vaguest hints if the Solar attempts to use it to uncover a highly
specific fact, such as another character’s personal secrets or the answer to a mystic riddle,
regardless of the successes rolled. Its purview is unveiling the secrets of history, the cosmos, and
natural law, not the secrets of Ragara Jonin’s infidelity.
This Charm inflicts one point of Limit, and cannot be used more than once per story.
Dogstar Ruminations (•••)
Resonance: Lore
Sage-emperors returned from their long slumber, the Solars’ great beards have shattered their
stone tables. In their great and terrible throes, they may call upon the forces of doom in order to
save their world. Through this Charm, also sometimes known as God-King’s Shrike, the Solar
realizes that a certain calamity must happen, and her consciousness is recognized, in turn, by the
universe.
System: The Solar must spend a full week contemplating and researching a region’s history,
climate, geography, and so on before using this Charm. Select a foe within the region who will
be harmed by this disaster, spend 5 Motes, 2 Willpower, and roll Intelligence + Lore against difficulty 9. One success means the Solar has foreseen a serious natural disaster such as a flash
flood, wildfire, or earthquake. Three successes means she has foreseen a catastrophic disaster
such as a tsunami, an earthquake that cracks the mountains, or the eruption of a city-destroying
volcano. Five successes means the Solar has foreseen one of the seven great dooms: a star falls
and annihilates the region; a behemoth rises from its slumber and plows through her foe’s cities;
an army of the dead spills from its shadowland during Calibration to wreak havoc; and so on.
The Solar decides what region to research and pronounce doom upon, but the Storyteller decides
the nature of the doom she divines based on the result of the roll. The Solar may show mercy at
any point before the cataclysm manifests itself by enacting a counter-omen that indefinitely
forestalls the catastrophe, which she also uncovered during the course of her research. This omen
is always simple enough to bring about without the need of a dice roll, should the Solar choose to
do so.
Using this Charm causes the Solar to gain two points of Limit. It may not be used again until the
Solar has experienced Limit Break.
Emerald Induction Technique (•••)
Resonance: Occult
The Solar fortifies her Essence and will through countless hours of painstaking study and
practice of various spiritual disciplines, becoming a puissant master of the mystic arts thereby.
System: Upon purchasing this Charm, the Solar lowers the difficulty of all shape sorcery rolls
by–1.
Supernal Effect: The Solar gains an additional control spell.
Instant Treatment Methodology (•••)
Resonance: Medicine
The Solar becomes capable of blindingly swift medical treatment, able to cycle through an entire
field hospital in under ten minutes while providing world-class care.
System: Spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, the Solar can complete any medical assessment
or treatment she undertakes, regardless of its complexity, in no more than a minute at most; most
treatments take mere seconds.
Judge’s Ear Technique (•••)
Resonance: Awareness, Empathy, Investigation
None can lie to the canny Chosen of the Sun without their deceit being known. Some distinct
sensation alerts the Solar to attempted deception – a sour taste or smell, perhaps, or a ringing in
her ears.
System: Spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, whenever someone knowingly lies to the Solar,
she recognizes the lie immediately for what it is.
Supernal Effect: The Solar is a master of the nuances of truth and deceit, and can construct
detailed psychological profiles from the lies people tell. When she catches someone in a lie with
Judge’s Ear Technique, this counts as them having revealed themselves, and she can attempt to
intuit their intentions, lowering the difficulty of her attempt by –2 (see p. XX).
Legendary Scholar’s Curriculum (•••)
Resonance: Lore
By putting a mortal through a dedicated training regimen, the Solar can fill him with wisdom to
rival the sage-kings of old. In little more than a week, a Solar with this Charm can transform a
group of poor farmers into world-class physicians or savants.
System: The Solar dedicates herself to educating a group of students, subjecting them to daily
lectures and demonstrations of her knowledge and expertise, which take up at least one hour
every day over the course of two weeks. She can dedicate her efforts to the training of a group of
up to Size (current Essence rating, maximum 5) at a time. While she’s actively training a group
of students, her maximum Mote pool is reduced by one. She can reclaim this capacity by
abandoning her students’ training, but if she does this and returns to their tutelage later, she must
start their training over from scratch.
After two weeks, ignorant peasants gain an Expertise pool of 5 and an Aptitude for one of the
following: Scholarship, medicine, skilled craftsmanship, the occult, or investigation. They also
become literate. Already-competent ministers, savants, physicians, and so on instead gain an
Expertise pool of 7. Experts in the Solar’s class advance to an Expertise pool of 9. A group of
students may be run through this training regimen repeatedly to hone them from total ignorance
to Legendary Scholars, or to branch them out into multidisciplinary mastery, if the Solar has
sufficient time and inclination.
If a protagonist partakes of Legendary Scholar training, then after two weeks of training they
may purchase one dot of Bureaucracy, Investigation, Linguistics, Lore, Medicine, or Occult as
though it were a Favored Ability.
Solar Circle Sorcery (•••)
Resonance: Occult
The Solar has grasped the workings of the all-powerful Solar Circle of sorcery. She can cast
Solar Circle spells. Purchase of this Charm grants one shaping ritual and one Solar Circle spell.
System: See Chapter Eleven for rules on playing a sorcerer.
A Solar must have Essence 5+ to purchase this Charm.
Wholeness-Restoring Meditation (•••)
Resonance: Medicine
Such is the Solar’s genius that her medical care can cure the incurable, or mend permanent
maiming or ailments.
System: The Solar may spend several hours treating an untreatable patient, then spend 2 Motes
and roll Intelligence + Medicine against difficulty 9. Success cures her patient any congenital
disease, defect, or disorder; or repairs any one physical debility, such as blindness, a weak heart,
a missing limb, or a damaged spine. If the Solar possesses Craft rated at 3+, she may accomplish
this through the construction of a wondrous prosthesis that in all respects works as well as a true
part of the patient’s body, and reduce the Charm’s cost to 1 Mote. Otherwise, her Essence and
medical expertise promote the regrowth, realignment, or regeneration of the patient’s body.
Supernal Effect: Such is the Solar’s genius that she can move beyond repairing the human form,
and craft improvements to it. The Solar may devise and execute a medical procedure requiring a
fully stocked surgical theater and 18 hours of uninterrupted labor; even Instant Treatment
Methodology can’t lower her working time below 6 hours. She then rolls Intelligence +
Medicine against difficulty 9. Failure inflicts four levels of aggravated damage upon the patient,
while a botch kills them outright; success, on the other hand, bestows them with some posthuman biological feature, such as wings, the ability to digest rocks, or altered anatomy allowing
the beneficiary to climb walls. In game terms, they gain up to the Solar’s Essence rating in the
Uncanny Background.
Wyld-Shaping Technique (•••)
Resonance: Lore
This is the legendary Charm by which the Solar Exalted once dreamed forth new worlds to
conquer. Now that they have returned, they may do so again. The Solar strides deep into the
lands of chaos and imposes her dreams upon the inchoate stuff of the Wyld, forcing it to conform
to her demands.
There are few more potent miracles known to the Exalted than Wyld-Shaping Technique… and
few more dangerous.
System: This Charm can only be used in a powerfully Wyld-tainted area of Creation, or at the
world’s margins where the fabric of the real spills out into the unformed madness beyond. The
Solar casts her will into the teeth of the Wyld and forces it to yield up her desires.
Wyld-Shaping technique is an extended roll of (Solar’s Essence rating), made at one-hour
intervals. The Solar must pay 5 Motes before making each roll. When she runs out of time,
Essence, or decides she is finished, she may cash in her successes to enact a miracle of creation,
or else may release the Charm’s power and allow the Wyld to resume its natural courses if she is
not satisfied with the successes she’s gained. A botch at any point causes the Charm to run
dangerously wild. If the Exalt is lucky this will only conjure forth a savage behemoth, a realityshredding storm that engulfs miles of Creation, or a hostile warband of the Fair Folk. Profound
transformation by the hostile Wyld is almost guaranteed without protective miracles in such
circumstances.
The difficulty of the Essence roll is determined by what the Solar is trying to create.
Wealth (difficulty 6): The Solar forces the Wyld to shower her with treasure and riches which
are not, in and of themselves, particularly useful. The Solar might create heaps of silver coins,
bags of precious gems, or beautiful artworks and tapestries. One success is enough to make a
single mortal wealthy enough to live comfortably for the rest of their days. Three successes is
enough to fund any sort of ambitious business venture such as the building of a Directionspanning road, the construction of a fleet of ships, or the outfitting of an army. Five successes
conjures enough wealth to found a nation upon. The problem of transporting such treasure is left
up to the Solar’s ingenuity. The Solar cannot create jade currency.
Great Works (difficulty 6): The Solar summons buildings, roads, aqueducts, and other
infrastructure into existence. One success may create a simple keep, rustic town, or rough road.
Three successes can make a powerful fortress, modest city, or wide, well-constructed road. Five
successes conjures up either an interconnected array of useful structures — a palace and
surrounding fortified city with road networks — or else one incredible structure, such as a truly
unassailable fortress, enormous city, or massive series of viaducts. These works are still located
within the Wyld unless a subsequent use of Wyld-Shaping Technique is used to stabilize the
land. Wyld-Shaping Technique doesn’t create manses.
Demesne (difficulty 7): The Solar concentrates geomantic Essence until a place of power forms
beneath her. The resulting Demesne has a rating equal to the successes spent on it. It is still
located within a Wyld-tainted landscape, however, unless Wyld-Shaping Technique is later used
again to stabilize the region.
Land (difficulty 7): The Solar conjures forth vast tracts of new landscape and adds them to
Creation. If used in a Wyld-tainted area deep within Creation, Wyld-Shaping Technique cleanses
the Wyld energies and stabilizes everything within 25 miles per success spent. If used to dredge
new lands from the borders of chaos, the Solar creates hundreds of square miles of new lands
roughly according to her vision. One success creates hard, barren lands which are hostile to any
sort of useful cultivation and filled with deadly dangers. Three successes creates a frontier of
adventure filled with useful resources or the potential for developed cultivation, but first
requiring conquest and taming. Five successes creates a gentle landscape of abundant natural
resources, fertile lands, or natural mineral wealth which might be extracted with only modest
development. The land is always congruent with the general character of the nearby Poles, so
tropical jungles cannot be conjured from the uttermost North, though alpine forests could.
If the Solar wishes the land to already feature inhabitants, towns, fortresses, and the like, who are
not familiar with her or innately inclined to trust or like her, increase the difficulty to 8.
Upon enacting this form of Wyld-Shaping, a region ceases to harbor the power of the Wyld, and
cannot be transformed any further with Wyld-Shaping Technique.
People (difficulty 8): The Solar creates useful, skilled human beings from nothing. They come
into being knowing who she is and possessing some manner of Intimacy of positive regard and
loyalty toward her, although this is no more robust than any other Intimacy if she subsequently
gives them reason to dislike her. The Solar conjures a group of people whose Size is equal to the
successes spent. Those created are either a medley of the dominant ethnotypes of the direction
where she’s working, or appear to hail from whatever land the Solar does, as she desires. Again,
the task of leading them out of the Wyld is left up to the Solar’s resourcefulness.
Prodigies (difficulty 9): The Solar creates magical prodigies. This mode of Wyld-Shaping
doesn’t make Manses or Artifacts; rather, it creates objects with unusual or impossible
properties, or fixed locations which perform useful magical functions. Generally, prodigies are
things like frozen flames or glass spheres containing a single suspended moment of time: little
impossibilities which might be used in the creation of Artifacts, offered as bribes to gods or
sorcerers, and other miscellany. The Solar may make a number of portable prodigies equal to the
successes rolled, or may expend three successes at a time for a truly impressive oddment worthy
of being used for making a 4 or 5-dot Artifact. Alternately, she may create ongoing works of
magic equivalent to a localized sorcerous working, such as a factory that creates an iron golem
once a week, or a grotto where pink crystals grow into reflections of the dreams of those who
sleep within. One success produces a magical phenomenon equal to a Terrestrial Circle working,
three successes equals a Celestial Circle working, and five successes is roughly equivalent to a
localized Solar Circle working. Ongoing splendors soon weaken and lose most of their
miraculous properties if the region is stabilized through further uses of Wyld-Shaping
Technique; the First Age Solars were forever forced to build new locations from which to
harvest useful impossibilities as the borders of Creation expanded and obsoleted their old works.
Things created with Wyld-Shaping Technique do not have the same intrinsic stability as the
original heartlands of Creation. If they are not routinely exposed to real people, places, and
things from Creation proper, they tend to lose their reality and slowly revert back into pure
possibility. Thus, it is important to import real people to explore and settle Wyld-Shaped lands,
or garrison and tend to Wyld-Shaped prodigies and outposts, lest they simply vanish after a few
months or years of neglect. Wyld-Shaped wealth, in particular, doesn’t tend to stick around if
simply left in a vault and not actively spent and traded by real people in real markets.
Supernal Effect: The Solar’s Essence rolls to use Wyld-Shaping Technique are immune to the
rule of 1s, and count 10s as two successes. By paying 7 Motes instead of 5, she may add one
extra die to a Wyld-Shaping roll.
Night Charms
Dust Motes Whirling (•)
Resonance: Athletics
The Solar fades easily into the chaos of combat by outpacing the tempo of her foes. When they
look up from their frustrated blows, she is nowhere to be found.
System: If an attack directed against the Solar before her turn fails to strike her, it does not
prevent her from reflexively moving to another zone that round. She may also do so even if an
attack against her does succeed (Essence rating) times per battle.
Easily Overlooked Presence Meditation (•)
Resonance: Stealth
The Solar can blend into any crowd, becoming impossible to discern or spot.
System: Pay 1 Mote and roll Wits + Stealth (difficulty 5). For a number of hours equal to the
successes rolled, it’s impossible to specifically notice the Solar’s presence so long as she’s not
doing anything to stand out from the movement or activities of the people around her. The eye
slides right off of her without noticing anything unusual or suspicious about her, even if the
observer is watching for her specifically. There must be at least a two dozen other people present
for the Solar to hide among in order to use this Charm.
Falling Icicle Strike (•)
Resonance: Stealth, Thrown
Those who cannot see the Solar coming for their life also cannot survive her displeasure.
System: The Solar may reflexively spend 1 Mote when launching an unexpected attack against a
target. The final damage of the attack is doubled after soak. By spending 1 Willpower when
activating this Charm, the Solar ensures that the target’s death makes no noise and will not be
discovered for at least the next few minutes, if that is at all possible. The Solar could hurl a knife
into a guard’s body in such a way that he falls behind some bushes or a carriage and isn’t missed
for a few minutes, for example, but couldn’t hurl a knife into a prince’s throat in the middle of a
speech and keep his death secret from the crowd of people staring directly at him — at best, it
might look for a few moments as though the man is leaning over to consider his next words.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may obscure any death she directly causes at no cost, even without
inflicting it via Falling Icicle Strike. Even in the midst of battle, it may not be immediately
apparent that the leader of the raiding band she’s fighting is dead after the Solar beheads him, for
example — his followers might simply think they’ve lost track of him in the chaos for a few
moments.
Graceful Crane Stance (•)
Resonance: Athletics
The Solar becomes near-weightless, and enjoys perfect balance.
System: The character needs never roll to maintain her balance, no matter how precarious her
footing, and may stand or run upon even the weakest or most insubstantial of surfaces, such as
falling leaves, individual threads, drops of rain, or even the surface of water. Reflexively
spending 1 Mote allows her to run and stand upon walls or even to cling to ceilings for the rest of
the scene.
Supernal Effect: The Solar also permanently lowers the difficulty of all Dexterity + Athletics
rolls by three.
Proof-Eating Palm (•)
Resonance: Larceny
The Solar may easily conceal anything she has on her which she ought not to have, producing it
later at her convenience.
System: The Exalt can perfectly hide anything she can carry in one hand which might
conceivably be concealed inside of a long coat, even if she’s not wearing a long coat. Indeed,
even if strip-searched by a team of experts, the Solar’s contraband will not be found. When she
has need of a concealed object, she may reflexively bring it to hand: it could be that it drops into
place from a sleeve; or maybe she plucks it from concealment in a nearby potted plant; or
perhaps she simply produces it with a magician’s flourish from Elsewhere. She can
simultaneously conceal up to (1 + her Larceny rating) objects with this Charm.
Reed in the Wind (•)
Resonance: Athletics
The Solar yields in the face of deadly attacks, presenting no solid target for her foes to inflict
calamitous damage against. Her grace ensures she can suffer no worse than mere bruises and
nicks.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For (2 + Essence rating) rounds, attacks directed against the
Solar by both protagonists and antagonists do not add threshold successes to their damage if she
attempts to Dodge them.
Sensory Acuity Prana (•)
Resonance: Awareness
By focusing Essence into her awareness of the world, the Solar’s senses become impossibly,
superhumanly sharp. She can hear a person’s heartbeat from rooms away, read a sheet of paper
by letting her fingers trail across the ink on it, and count the hairs on a fly’s legs from across a
room.
System: The Solar must spend a turn in concentration to activate or banish this Charm. While it
is active, the difficulty of all Perception rolls drops by –3, to a minimum of difficulty 3. Since
Sensory Acuity Prana sharpens the Solar’s senses indiscriminately, few of the Chosen leave it
active at all times, having no desire to smell the odor of every midden heap they pass in
superhuman detail.
Shadow-Crossing Leap (•)
Resonance: Stealth
Just when it seems certain that the Solar’s hiding place will be discovered, it becomes clear that
she foresaw this turn of events and has already stealthily relocated to somewhere else.
System: (Essence rating) times per scene, when another character enters a zone where the Solar
is hiding in concealment and makes a Perception + Awareness roll to spot her, she may
reflexively declare that she already snuck away, and is in an adjacent zone. The classic use for
this Charm is to sneak into the room the interloper just came from, but it can also be used to
backtrack, vanish into the rafters, and for many other purposes. The Solar may ignore any
problems that would normally arise from complex movement or the like when exploiting this
Charm.
Supernal Effect: When this Charm activates, the character can move up to two zones, and gains
an extra turn at the end of the round after all other characters have acted, though they cannot
move into a different zone on this turn.
Shadow Feint Concealment (•)
Resonance: Stealth
The Solar’s opponent swings a halberd at her face. She ducks, a blur of steel obscures her for but
a heartbeat… and then she is gone.
System: Once per scene, when the Solar is the target of an attack which fails to strike her, she
may reflexively make a Dexterity + Stealth roll to enter concealment. The difficulty is 6 if the
attack occurs in a dim, shadowy environment with lots of hiding places, 7 if in a well-lit but
cluttered area, and 8 if the Solar is in plain view with little to nothing in the way of good hiding
spots.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may use Shadow Feint Concealment (Essence rating) times per
scene, and lowers its difficulty by –1.
Shadow Over Water (•)
Resonance: Athletics
The Solar is elusive as a shadow upon the surface of a running stream, confounding all attempts
to strike her.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For next (1 + Essence rating) rounds,
each result of 1 rolled on attacks against the Solar by a protagonist subtracts one from that
attack’s base damage while this Charm is active, if she attempts to Dodge the attack. Attacks
aimed at her by antagonists which she attempts to Dodge instead increase their damage by one
point per three successes rolled rather than the usual two. Finally, all group attacks that the Solar
attempts to Dodge while this Charm is active do not add Size to their Expertise pool or base
damage.
This Charm’s duration is (3 + Essence rating) rounds if the Solar is not wearing armor.
Soaring Crane Leap (•)
Resonance: Athletics
Essence surges through the Solar’s legs, propelling her effortlessly through the air.
System: The Solar’s jumping distance and height is tripled. By reflexively spending 1 Mote, the
Solar may increase her jumping distance or height tenfold. In combat, she can easily relocate to
zones above her without recourse to complex movement.
Supernal Effect: The character always lands on her feet, is permanently immune to falling
damage, and this Charm’s more powerful mode is always on without the need of an Essence
cost.
Drifting Leaf Elusion (••)
Resonance: Athletics
The Solar, finely attuned to danger, moves to avoid it at the last moment as a matter of bonedeep reflex. Even if it appears the Solar has been struck down, it may be revealed that she is safe
after all, having faded away from the blow with nothing left to spare.
System: If an attack directed at the Solar generates fewer successes than her Athletics rating, she
increases her soak against it by +2 dice.
Evidence-Banishing Method (••)
Resonance: Larceny
Whatsoever the Solar does, she leaves no evidence of her activities behind.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote immediately after committing some sort of crime or other
questionable act for which punishment or retribution might befall the Exalt if anyone links it
back to her. No evidence which links her back to the act can be discovered with Investigation
rolls. The only thing this Charm won’t cover up are the memories of eyewitnesses.
Supernal Effect: The Solar even vanishes from the memories of those who directly witnessed
her crime unless they succeed at a difficulty 9 Willpower roll at the time of this Charm’s
activation. If they fail, then they’ll forget they saw anyone or anything at all if it’s remotely
plausible that this might have been the case. If it’s obvious to everyone that they witnessed the
crime, then they remember seeing someone, but can recall absolutely no identifying details. If
they try to deduce the culprit’s identity through some baroque means such as figuring out who
could have been present that isn’t otherwise accounted for, they will even generate false
memories to exonerate the Solar.
Foe-Scenting Method (••)
Resonance: Awareness, Occult
The Solar’s senses, attuned to the uncanny, immediately pick out Essence-users.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the next 24 hours, the Solar becomes aware
when she stands in the presence of any supernatural being, though she doesn’t inherently know
what sort of supernatural being any given individual may be. This Charm doesn’t detect
dematerialized beings unless the Solar is able to perceive them at the time.
Supernal Effect: By concentrating on an individual the Solar believes to be a supernatural
entity, she may scrutinize that creature’s Essence for clues to its nature. Roll Perception + Occult
against difficulty 8. Success causes the Solar to receive compelling clues. For example: “A
deathly aura hangs about him.” Or: “A great hulking wolf-shadow looms above her.” If the Solar
has encountered and scrutinized this sort of supernatural being in the past, then she can identify
them as such. “He’s an Abyssal.” “She’s a Lunar.”
Flawlessly Impenetrable Disguise (••)
Resonance: Larceny, Performance
The Solar becomes a master of disguise, able to appear as whoever or whatever she likes with
only a few moments of preparation.
System: The difficulty to see through any of the Solar’s disguise attempts is permanently set at
9. By spending 1 Mote, the character can make her disguise absolutely perfect so long as she
chooses to maintain it, even mimicking supernatural elements such as a god’s storm-lashed hair,
a Dragon-Blooded’s aura of flames, or a ghost floating just off of the ground. These are tricks
and cosmetic imitations, and won’t grant any special powers (the Solar isn’t really levitating, and
the fire aura can’t burn things).
Ghost-Walking Prana (••)
Resonance: Stealth, Survival
Wheresoever the Solar goes, she leaves no trace behind.
System: Spend 1 Mote. This Charm lasts until the Solar stops to rest for at least an hour. Until
then she leaves absolutely no evidence of her passage behind, making it impossible to track her
using mundane effort. Those with supernaturally acute senses or supernaturally accurate tracking
must still roll against difficulty 9 to follow the Solar’s trail.
Lightning Speed (••)
Resonance: Athletics
The Solar moves with the speed of darting sunbeams, able to flash from place to place almost
faster than the eye can follow.
System: The difficulty of all actions to run someone down, get somewhere quickly, or jump a
difficult gap are permanently lowered by two. By reflexively spending 1 Mote when she moves
to an adjacent zone, the Solar may move two zones instead.
Supernal Effect: The Solar moves with the speed and freedom of light itself; there’s nothing
faster. The difficulty of all actions influenced by Lightning Speed are lowered by an additional –
2. By spending 1 Mote, she may release her god-speed for the rest of the scene; each turn, she
can reflexively move up to two zones.
Mountain-Crossing Leap Technique (••)
Resonance: Athletics
Gathering all her power into her legs, the Solar propels herself into the air and over the horizon
with a mighty leap.
System: The Solar spends a moment concentrating and spends 2 Motes. Her player then rolls
(Strength + Athletics) against a difficulty determined by the density and complexity of the
Solar’s destination. Open farmland would be difficulty 5, while the middle of Nexus would be
difficulty 8. The more successes rolled, the more accurately the Solar touches down exactly
where she wants to land. This Charm can carry the Solar up to (Essence rating x 3) miles in a
single leap. Everyone within the same zone as the Solar when she takes off or lands must make a
Stamina + Resistance roll against difficulty 6 to avoid being knocked prone; they must climb
back to their feet on their next turn, a form of complex movement that leaves them unable to
move to another zone.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may pay 1 additional Mote while soaring through the air with
Mountain-Crossing Leap Technique, or indeed at any time when she is plummeting toward the
ground from a great height for any reason, to wrap herself in a powerful corona of Essence.
When she lands, this Essence-corona detonates, and she strikes the ground without suffering any
injury whatsoever with the force of a runaway meteorite. Everyone and everything within the
same zone or a directly adjacent zone of the Solar’s point of impact must soak (Essence rating x
2) levels of bashing damage. If she lands in the middle of a battle group, she additionally rolls
her Strength + Athletics against difficulty 4 and applies the successes as bashing damage to the
group.
Seasoned Criminal Method (••)
Resonance: Larceny
The Solar is a master of all criminal enterprise, able to trivially go where she will and take what
she likes.
System: Any career criminal the Solar meets instinctively recognizes her as a fellow member of
the underworld, and furthermore, one who represents potential opportunities for enrichment and
advancement rather than a potential threat or rival. This is a potent first impression, but won’t
negate or erase any knowledge to the contrary that an individual might have (it won’t make them
forget their boss telling them that the Solar is an enemy and should be killed on sight, for
example).
Surprise Anticipation Method (••)
Resonance: Athletics
A sixth sense warns the Solar of impending danger, making her impossible to take unaware so
long as she hasn’t totally exhausted both body and spirit.
System: The Solar may reflexively spend 1 Mote to automatically notice an ambush or other
such unexpected attack, allowing her to defend against it as normal.
Ten-Ox Meditation (••)
Resonance: Athletics
Essence burns and surges in the Solar’s muscles, granting strength beyond strength.
System: The difficulty of feats of strength to lift or break something are lowered by –3. The
Solar may reflexively spend 1 Mote to cause her unarmed attacks to gain a base damage of 7B
for the rest of the scene.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may spend 1 Mote to succeed at absolutely any feat of strength
when using Ten-Ox Meditation involving objects up to the size of a tower. Ten-Ox Meditation’s
enhancement to attack rolls still functions as normal.
Bonfire Anima Wings (•••)
Resonance: Athletics
The Solar’s anima bears her aloft like a comet or a pair of angelic wings, allowing her to fly.
System: Spend 3 Motes. For the rest of the scene, the Solar can fly. If activated at the apex of
Mountain-Crossing Leap Technique, this Charm costs only 1 Mote. Even if her anima has
otherwise faded from visibility, it streams out like a contrail behind her when she flies at
maximum speed (Essence x 10 miles per hour), making her highly visible.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may use this Charm for free whenever her anima is flaring.
Clever Bandit’s Rook (•••)
Resonance: Larceny
The Solar is a master of all criminal enterprise, able to trivially go where she will and take what
she likes.
System: Spend 1 Mote to perform any of the following feats: Cause a lock to spring open, pass
through a closed door or window without disturbing it, or attempt to steal an object in plain sight
without anyone noticing the attempt.
Supernal Effect: Once per session, shortly after leaving a location, the Solar may spend 2 Motes
to retroactively declare that she successfully stole something without anyone noticing and that
she has it on her right now. The object must have actually been there for her to steal it, but it
otherwise doesn’t matter how implausible the theft is. Stealing Mask of Winters’s pants after he
addressed the Circle from the battlements of Thorns is well within the Solar’s capabilities.
Eye of the Unconquered Sun (•••)
Resonance: Awareness
The Solar’s eyes cut through all supernatural obscurity, unerringly sighting her foes.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to immediately defeat all forms of supernatural concealment,
invisibility, and the like. Any character that is trying to hide from the Solar is immediately
revealed to her senses.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may spend 2 Motes when activating Eye of the Unconquered Sun to
open her Caste Mark and unleash a flood of searing, all-revealing light. Any being within two
zones of the Solar that is attempting to hide or conceal itself is outlined in brilliant white flames
that shine through all covering and concealment, even through walls, revealing them to all
characters present, not just the Solar. There’s nothing subtle about this display: the air quakes
and seethes with golden light, shining through walls and obstacles to banish all shadows. This
display lasts until the Solar wills it to end. All attempts to target an individual wrapped in white
flames (which linger for as long as a marked individual stays in the Solar’s light) lower their
difficulty by –1.
Flow Like Blood (•••)
Resonance: Athletics, War
The Solar moves with an impossible fluid grace. Whenever it seems that an attack has struck her
down, it becomes clear a moment later that this is not the case. Indeed, when her enemies
surround her on all sides, their frenzied and futile offense merely opens them to her reprisal.
System: Reflexively spend 1 Mote to activate this Charm. For the rest of the scene, all attacks
which the Solar attempts to Dodge subtract one success from their total rolled, and the Solar’s
Dodge value is increased by +1. If this would raise her Defense above 9, her attackers are forced
to discard an additional success from their attacks.
If the Solar successfully Dodges an attack while this Charm is active, then she may reflexively
move into an adjacent zone she could reach without resorting to complex movement as she
evades her enemies, even if she has already moved or been attacked this round.
Supernal Effect: When the Solar takes advantage of the reflexive movement function of this
Charm, she may momentarily atomize herself to pass through even solid walls in order to reach
adjacent zones that would not otherwise be possible to access.
Secret Police Indoctrination (•••)
Resonance: Larceny
By putting a mortal through a dedicated training regimen, the Solar can train him to undertake
the necessary dirty-work of government. In little more than a week, a Solar with this Charm can
transform a group of clueless farmhands into assassins, spies, torturers, and kidnappers with
nerves of steel.
System: The Solar dedicates herself to training a group of students, subjecting them to daily
exercises and drills under her oversight, which take up at least one hour every day over the
course of two weeks. She can dedicate her efforts to the training of a group of up to Size (current
Essence rating, maximum 5) at a time. While she’s actively training a group of students, her
maximum Mote pool is reduced by one. She can reclaim this capacity by abandoning her
students’ training, but if she does this and returns to their tutelage later, she must start their
training over from scratch.
After two weeks, bumbling oafs gain an Expertise pool of 5 and an Aptitude for one of the
following: Assassination, interrogation, intimidation, making people vanish, or spying. They also
become familiar with a series of codes and ciphers of the Solar’s devising. Already-competent
intelligence agents instead gain an Expertise pool of 7. Experts in the Solar’s class advance to an
Expertise pool of 9. A group of students may be run through this training regimen repeatedly to
hone them from total ignorance to Secret Police, or to branch them out into multidisciplinary
mastery, if the Solar has sufficient time and inclination.
If a protagonist partakes of Secret Police training, then after two weeks of training they may
purchase one dot of Athletics, Awareness, Investigation, Larceny, Martial Arts, Presence,
Stealth, or Thrown as though it were a Favored Ability.
Seven Shadow Evasion (•••)
Resonance: Athletics
Letting her Essence instinctively carry her out of harm’s way, the Solar may dodge any single
attack of which she is aware.
System: Once per scene, when faced with an attack or similar form of danger, the Solar may
declare that she perfectly dodges it. The attack fails to strike the Solar without any further dice
rolls. This defense cannot be invoked against undodgeable or unexpected attacks.
The Solar may reset the limitation of this Charm and make it available again by avoiding an
attack by Dodging it without utilizing a perfect defense or by vanishing into concealment (see p.
XX).
Supernal Effect: The Solar repositions herself optimally after avoiding an attack. If she uses her
next action to attack someone whose attack she dodged with Seven Shadow Evasion, that attack
is made at –2 difficulty. If the target is a group, her attack ignores the Size bonus to its soak.
Vanishing From Mind’s Eye Method (•••)
Resonance: Stealth
The Solar can still her Essence, vanishing from sight and awareness completely.
System: By standing still in a shadowed place or obscure corner and remaining quiet, the Solar
can become functionally invisible and impossible to notice so long as nobody’s actively
watching her. This obscurity remains in place so long as she doesn’t move or make noise.
Spending 1 Mote renders her invisible and impossible to notice for the rest of the scene, so long
as she doesn’t make some sort of loud noise or take blatant action such as attacking or tipping
over a bookshelf.
Supernal Effect: The Solar’s invisibility is unimpeachable. Even if she makes loud noises or
begins fighting, the invisibility granted by Vanishing From Mind’s Eye Method won’t break.
Only her anima flaring will break the Charm. See page XX for rules with dealing with invisible
people.
Eclipse Charms
Foul Air of Argument Technique (•)
Resonance: Bureaucracy
Simply by briefly conversing with someone involved, the Solar may embed her Essence in a
bureaucracy or project like a curse, causing it to bog down in inefficiency, errors, and red tape.
System: The character can spend 3 Motes to target a specific office or project with terrible
inefficiency for the rest of the current story. Everyone involved in pushing the project forward
increases the difficulty of all rolls to do so by +2. In narrative terms, the project is plagued with
conflicts and inefficiency and grinds to a near-halt.
Guarded Thoughts Meditation (•)
Resonance: Awareness, Empathy, Resistance
The Solar’s mind is a vault, holding her thoughts within like precious gems.
System: Whenever someone attempts to read the Solar’s mind by any means, roll Perception +
Awareness against difficulty 6. Success reveals not only the mind-reading attempt, but also who
is responsible. The Solar may then pay 1 Mote to reflexively shield her thoughts, making them
impossible to read for the rest of the scene. The Solar may also pre-emptively shield her thoughts
by paying 1 Mote, even before anyone attempts to pry.
Supernal Effect: The Solar’s secrets are her own, and Guarded Thoughts Meditation is always
active at no cost.
Insightful Buyer Technique (•)
Resonance: Bureaucracy
The Solar entangles her Essence with something she wishes to sell, transforming it into a subtle
beacon that will, in time, bring a buyer into her presence.
System: Spend 1 Mote while contemplating something the Solar owns and wishes to sell. In
time, a buyer with both the interest and the resources to offer a reasonable price for the item will
appear. If this is a mundane transaction for something such as a well-made sword or a horse, a
buyer will appear almost immediately. For more exotic sales, like the command codes for a
squadron of brass legionaries, it may take several days or weeks for the Solar to bump into a
suitable buyer (largely to give the Storyteller time to craft an interesting story rather than having
to pull something out of their ass on the spot), but the buyer will appear in time.
Inverted Ego Mask (•)
Resonance: Socialize
The Solar builds up a wall of masks around the innermost truths of her heart, ensuring that none
can discover who she really is unless she permits it.
System: Any ordinary or supernatural attempt to discern the Solar’s Nature automatically fails,
revealing whichever result she wishes to project in its place. This Charm’s effects are permanent.
Supernal Effect: The Solar is an absolute cipher. Unless she willingly reveals information about
herself, it is impossible to learn anything about the Solar’s identity, past, or innermost motives
through mundane research or magical means of any sort. Another character can still attempt to
speak to the Solar to convince her to open up, of course.
Irresistible Salesman Spirit (•)
Resonance: Bureaucracy
The Solar focuses her Essence into the ultimate high-pressure sales pitch, capable of convincing
almost anyone to buy almost anything, and for outrageous prices.
System: After spending a few moments delivering her pitch, the Solar’s player spends 1 Mote
and rolls Manipulation + Bureaucracy against a difficulty equal to the target’s Willpower. She
can raise or lower the fundamental value of whatever she’s trying to buy, sell, barter, or bargain
for in the target’s eyes by a factor of (successes rolled + 1). This Charm is equally as applicable
to political favors as to financial transactions; a Solar who rolled five successes might convince
the Despot of Gem to pay her six times as much silver as he’d initially considered in exchange
for her help discovering who or what is murdering his supporters, for example.
This Charm doesn’t force the target to accept a deal, only to re-evaluate its reasonable worth; it
also doesn’t mystically enforce any agreements made under its auspices. Its enchantment fades
after the Solar’s (Essence rating) hours, at which point the target may very well realize they’ve
been swindled.
Supernal Effect: If the target’s Resolve is equal to or lower than the Solar’s Essence rating, she
may use this Charm to convince him that absolutely any price she cares to name is reasonable.
Master Equestrian’s Techniques (•)
Resonance: Ride
The Solar exhibits the traits of a horseman of legend.
System: This Charm conveys the following benefits:
• All Ride rolls are made at –1 difficulty.
• The Solar may whistle and spend 1 Mote, and any mount she owns, or which regards her with
deep fondness even if she doesn’t own it, will appear within a matter of moments, ready to be
mounted and ridden.
• Any mount the Solar rides can race all out for 12 hours without tiring, and can move twice as
fast as it would if bearing any other rider.
• If an attack is directed at the Solar’s mount, it can add her Ride rating to its soak.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may spend 1 Mote while riding a steed to grant it the power to
gallop on air for the rest of the scene.
Phantom Steed (•)
Resonance: Ride
Reaching deep within herself, the Solar finds a mount that expresses her innermost self and
brings it forth into the world to serve her. Generally, her anima hardens into a golden horse to
carry her into battle or to convey her along her way.
System: Spend 1 Mote to solidify a mount out of the Solar’s anima for the rest of the scene.
Should she dismount, it dissipates back into the pure Essence from which it came.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may spend 1 Willpower to maintain the solidity of her Phantom
Steed even while no longer in contact with it. Not only will the mount continue to exist, it can
move of its own accord in response to the Solar’s will, as though she were riding, making rolls to
maneuver with the Solar’s dice pool. The Phantom Steed always “knows” where the Solar is and
how to find her, and is otherwise as “intelligent” as the Solar in carrying out the tasks the Solar
assigns to it. The Solar doesn’t need to be able to see or communicate with her Phantom Steed to
give it commands.
Salty Dog Method (•)
Resonance: Sail
The Solar is an exemplar of nautical daring and perseverance.
System: This Charm conveys the following benefits:
• All Sail rolls are made at –2 difficulty.
• Having stared the worst horrors of weather and the deeps directly in their dead and hateful
eyes, the Solar has become inured to fear. The difficulty of all attempts to frighten her by
supernatural means is increased by +1, and the first time in any given session that someone or
something tries to terrify her in such a fashion and fails, she gains one point of Willpower.
• The Solar can swim without it counting as complex movement, and may hold her breath for up
to 15 minutes at a time. By spending 1 Mote, she can extend this to (Essence rating) hours, and
also survive the crushing pressure of the deepest ocean trenches.
• So long as she can see the sky and feel the wind against her skin, the Solar can spend 1 Mote to
accurately predict the local weather over the next (Essence rating) days.
Supernal Effect: The weather ever reflects the Solar’s mood. When she’s happy or content, it’s
clear skies and warm sunshine. Her sorrows bring heavy rains, and her rages provoke violent
storms. She can roll Willpower against difficulty 6 to still this effect for a day if she wishes.
Subtle Speech Method (•)
Resonance: Linguistics, Socialize
The Solar becomes a master of hidden meaning, coding messages inside messages that only
reveal themselves to those she wishes.
System: Spend 1 Mote while speaking or composing a written work to embed a second, hidden
message inside the statement or writing. This hidden message can only be discerned by those the
Solar intends to address it to.
Whirling Brush Method (•)
Resonance: Lore, Linguistics
Words pour through the Solar’s mind like a rushing river, leaving wisdom behind in their wake
without consuming her precious time.
System: Spend 1 Mote. For the rest of the scene, the Solar may read and absorb information as
fast as she can track her eyes across the page. Books can be consumed in moments. Moreover,
she can copy text by hand at lightning speed, transcribing an entire book in minutes, up to and
including any diagrams or illustrations.
Wyld Emissary’s Resolve (•)
Resonance: Bureaucracy, Lore
The Solar fixes the certainty of her existence upon a singular mission and then strides forth into
the lands of chaos, protected from its transformative touch.
System: The Solar envisions a distinct objective for herself with an attainable end-goal, such as
“Sitting down with the Court of Laughing Eyes and hammering out a non-aggression treaty,” or
“Returning home,” and then activates this Charm. Upon doing so, her maximum Mote pool
capacity is reduced by one, but she gains complete protection from being transformed in mind,
body, or spirit by the Wyld so long as she is acting in pursuit of her mission. If this Charm’s
protection abates due to completion of her mission or the mission becoming impossible, the
Solar may immediately select a new mission and reactivate Wyld Emissary’s Resolve, but each
time she does this it increases the Mote pool reduction by one.
Secondary activities such as traveling to the Court of Laughing Eyes, or preparing a meal or
resting during that journey, are considered part of a mission, but when the Solar does anything
completely unrelated to her mission (pursuing a beautiful faerie she saw in the forest), this
Charm’s protection lapses. She may have multiple activations running concurrently to give her
multiple missions to pursue for additional protection, but each mission inflicts its own
(potentially mounting) Mote pool reduction.
The Solar may voluntarily abandon this Charm at any time.
Elusive Mount Technique (••)
Resonance: Ride
The Solar and her mount weave through the fury of battle with the grace of the wind and the
shock of a thunderbolt. Her foes’ meager efforts cannot stop her.
System: The Solar can always move on her turn while she is mounted, whether she has already
been attacked that round or not. This Charm is disabled until after the end of her next turn if she
suffers a blow which inflicts three or more levels of damage after soak.
Indecent Proposal Method (••)
Resonance: Socialize
The Solar layers her words with formality and buttresses them with conditional necessity,
allowing her to propose the shocking and the treasonous without causing dismay or alarm.
System: Spend 1 Mote when making a proposal to another character. No matter what it is the
Solar asks or advises, it is impossible for the target to become alarmed, angered, or disgusted as a
consequence; whatever the Solar says seems to fall within a strange quirk of propriety or at the
very least to plainly be a necessary evil, even if she is asking an Immaculate monk to salaciously
abandon her vows or a loving father to slay his children. The target may well say no, but they
won’t say it with heat and rancor and then report the Solar to the authorities or dash their tea in
her face.
Mastery of Small Manners (••)
Resonance: Empathy, Socialize
An instinctive facility for etiquette and social currents ensures that the Solar never commits faux
pas or social gaffes when dealing with unfamiliar cultures or social situations.
System: The Solar lowers the difficulty of all Socialize rolls by one, and cannot botch with when
rolling it. Should she fail at any social roll, she may reflexively spend 1 Mote to attempt to re-roll
it once.
Supernal Effect: The Solar unfailingly gives excellent first impressions to all those she meets,
lowering the difficulty of all social rolls against a character during the first scene she meets them
in by one. Unless given some pressing reason to act otherwise, those who first encounter the
Solar are inclined to regard her well and behave favorably toward her; in short, they like her.
Orichalcum Letters of Marque (••)
Resonance: Sail
The Solar invites her vessel to partake of her legend, steeping its decks and sails in the power
that once cast down the makers of the world.
System: Upon credibly claiming a ship as her own — that is to say, coming to command its crew
and having her orders obeyed — the Solar may spend 1 Mote, 1 Willpower to enchant the vessel.
Those she has not formally accepted aboard suffer a –2 penalty to all actions while aboard her
ship. Moreover, any spirit entered into the ranks of her crew may materialize reflexively and at
no cost while aboard the ship. Creatures of darkness that she officially recognizes as crew are
exempted from that status while serving her aboard the ship as well.
Finally, if the Solar has an Intimacy toward the vessel, it counts as a sun-aspected Demesne
equal to her Essence rating while she is aboard, which she owns and is attuned to. The Solar may
only have one enchanted vessel at a time.
Sagacious Reading of Intent (••)
Resonance: Lore, Linguistics
The Solar’s keen insight cuts through all attempts at dissembling, allowing her to easily decipher
the intentions of others.
System: The Solar needs only hear someone speak a few words or to read something they’ve
written to make an attempt to read their intentions (see p. XX). Spending 1 Mote after a
successful roll will also let the Solar read the target’s surface thoughts for a few moments.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may continue reading a target’s thoughts for as long as he remains in
her line of sight, rather than for only a few moments.
Speed the Wheels (••)
Resonance: Bureaucracy
The Solar is like a saint of complex systems, leaving efficiency in her wake.
System: When the Solar engages with bureaucracy or labyrinthine systems such as courts of law,
corporate networks, or government offices, red tape parts before her like the Red Sea and she is
able to proceed in a mere fraction of the normal time. Moreover, simply by briefly conversing
with someone involved, she can spend 2 Motes to place her blessing upon a project such a
certain magistrate investigation, bit of legislation, or attempt at reforming city government, and
everyone involved in pushing the project forward reduces the difficulty of all rolls to do so by –
2. In narrative terms, the project steams forward with uncanny speed and efficiency.
Strange Tongue Understanding (••)
Resonance: Linguistics
The Solar is a master of tongues, able to understand and be understood despite any language
barrier.
System: The Solar can understand any language after a few minutes of exposure to it, and make
herself understood after a few minutes more. Spending 1 Motes grants instant fluency for the rest
of the scene, and makes the character sound like a native speaker.
Supernal Effect: The Solar may spend 3 Willpower to permanently retain any language she
learns with Strange Tongue Understanding.
Storm-Weathering Essence Infusion (••)
Resonance: Sail
The Solar’s Essence bends the sympathies of wind and tide toward her, and permeates her vessel
in a protective coating.
System: Spend 1 Mote while commanding or aboard a sailing vessel, and roll Wits + Sail against
difficulty 6. The ship enjoys favorable winds and cooperative currents for one day per success
rolled, and if there is inclement weather, then the ship somehow manages to find calm patches
that do not impair its progress. The Solar may also reflexively pay 2 Motes when the ship suffers
any form of substantial harm such as being struck by a battle spell or being smashed against
rocks. The ship miraculously escapes from what should have been serious damage without
anything worse than some singed boards or scraped-off paint.
Twisted Words Technique (••)
Resonance: Linguistics
The Solar places careful, subliminal emphasis on certain words, striking key points in a chosen
listener or reader’s psyche. When that individual hears or reads her words, they awaken a deep
well of feeling within him.
System: Spend 1 Mote while making a verbal speech or composing a letter, pamphlet, essay,
poem, or other such written work. The Exalt must have a specific target in mind for the speech or
composition. When that person hears or reads the speech, they must succeed at a Wits +
Linguistics roll against difficulty (4 + Solar’s Linguistics) or else immediately develop a
temporary Intimacy of the Solar’s choosing. This Intimacy persists until the end of the current
story. Protagonists may spend 3 points of Willpower to reject this Intimacy for the rest of the
current story.
Wise-Eyed Courtier Method (••)
Resonance: Awareness, Socialize
The Solar can quickly unravel the dynamics of any social situation she finds herself in by
observing little more than word choice and body language.
System: The Solar can analyze the relationship between any two characters by spending a
moment observing them, then spending 1 Mote and rolling Perception + Socialize against
difficulty 8. Even so much as one success not only reveals whether the two characters know one
another, but also the depth and nature of that relationship (“They’re business partners, but they
don’t advertise that relationship, and they don’t trust one another”).
All-Seeing Master Procurer (•••)
Resonance: Bureaucracy, Socialize
Essence connecting her to the world around her, the Solar has learned to be all things to all
people.
System: By spending an hour in meditation and spending 3 Motes, the Solar may grant herself a
dot of a social Background of her choice for the next 24 hours, letting her Essence lead her to the
needed contacts, money, support, or whatever else.
Supernal Effect: This Charm grants two dots of Backgrounds, which may be assigned to the
same Background or separately.
Asp Bites Its Tail (•••)
Resonance: Presence, Socialize
Such is the Solar’s assurance and bearing that she may effortlessly turn barbs and imprecations
cast against her back on those so foolish as to slander her.
System: When slighted, humiliated, or accused of wrongdoing, the player can reflexively spend
1 Mote and roll Manipulation + Socialize against the accuser’s resisted Charisma + Socialize
(both difficulty 6). Should the Solar gain more successes, then everyone present becomes
convinced the aggressor was in fact the one who belittled, insulted, or implicated herself.
Supernal Effect: When using this Charm, the Solar rolls against difficulty 5 and her aggressor
against difficulty 7. Additionally, should she successfully turn the tables, the difficulty of all of
her social rolls against that target for the rest of the scene drop by –2, while the difficulty of all
social actions made by the individual who embarrassed himself are increased by +2.
Cup Boils Over (•••)
Resonance: Empathy, Linguistics
The Solar composes a condemnation of purposeless existence, which is so profound that it
strikes dead those with no bastion of ego to protect them against the Exalt’s words.
System: Spend 3 Motes and roll Manipulation + Linguistics against a difficulty of a particular
target’s Willpower rating in order to craft a condemnation of their specific life within the world.
This condemnation can be verbal or written. Should a protagonist hear or read this condemnation
while they have 0 Willpower points, their soul leaves their body, and they die soon after.
Antagonists can be targeted at any time their Resolve is 3 or lower. The soul-eaten victims of the
Fair Folk are also vulnerable to being destroyed by this Charm, as are artificial beings with no
real personality.
The Solar must be familiar enough with her target to be able to criticize their life in at least very
broad strokes, and a condemnation devised with this Charm loses its potency after one month, as
the events and circumstances of the target’s life cause her to no longer perfectly match the
Solar’s critiques.
Supernal Effect: When the target hears or reads the Solar’s condemnation, they lose a number
of points of Willpower equal to the successes she rolled. If this reduces them to 0 Willpower or
to Resolve 3 or less, Cup Boils Over knocks their soul off.
Heart-Eclipsing Shroud (•••)
Resonance: Empathy, Socialize
As useful as it is to be herself, it sometimes suits a Solar’s purposes to be someone else. She
devises another persona, feeding Essence into this identity until it takes on a reality of its own.
System: Upon purchasing this Charm, design a second persona for the character. This identity
has its own name, Nature, and Intimacies, which need have no connection with the Solar’s own.
It also has its own memories, separate from those of the Solar, and a false history she devises,
with false memories to uphold it.
Each day, when the Solar awakens, her player decides which of her personas she is wearing. The
Solar may voluntarily switch to a different persona at any time by spending a turn in
concentration and spending 1 Mote, 1 Willpower. If a persona’s “appearance” varies
significantly from the Solar’s own, the difficulty of any (Intelligence or Wits) + Larceny roll to
construct a disguise to take on that appearance is reduced to 3, or 4 even in the near-total absence
of useful props.
This Charm may be purchased a number of times equal to the Solar’s Essence rating. All
purchases past the first treat Heart-Eclipsing Shroud as a one-dot Charm.
Supernal Effect: When designing a persona, the Solar may reallocate up to one dot in each of
her Attribute categories (Physical, Social, Mental) so that, for example, a certain persona is less
observant than she is but has a keener mind. She also transforms into a persona’s appearance
upon assuming it rather than needing to don a disguise.
Knowing the Soul’s Price (•••)
Resonance: Empathy, Investigation, Socialize
Everyone, no matter their integrity, no matter their morals, has a price for which they will bend
to the Solar’s desires. This Charm cuts through to the soul’s innermost secrets, revealing that
price.
System: Spend 3 Motes and roll Perception + Empathy against a difficulty of the target’s
Willpower. Success reveals the price that will cause the target to do what the Solar wants,
whether it’s as simple as a sum of money or as daunting as the return of a dead loved one.
Supernal Effect: Should the Solar accumulate five or more successes when using Knowing the
Soul’s Price, she also gains an instinctive hunch where to start looking to find the price she’s
uncovered, if she doesn’t have it already.
Venomous Rumors Technique (•••)
Resonance: Performance, Socialize
Insinuating a thread of her Essence into ill-intended gossip, the Solar assures that her poison
reaches every ear that might matter.
System: Spend 2 Motes and roll Manipulation + Socialize against a difficulty of (4 + highest of
the target’s Allies, Backing, Command, Influence, or Resources). While this Charm can’t ensure
that everyone believes whatever terrible rumor the Solar wishes to spread, success does
guarantee that within a day or two, everyone who matters has at least heard it.
Supernal Effect: By spending 3 Motes rather than 2 when activating Venomous Rumors
Technique, the Solar may define the scope of the damage her rumors inflict, causing the target to
lose a dot of the Background she chooses to target. This can only damage social Backgrounds
like Resources and Connections.
Wise Minister Academy (•••)
Resonance: Bureaucracy
By putting a mortal through a dedicated training regimen, the Solar can prepare him to smoothly
execute the running of a nation. In little more than a week, a Solar with this Charm can transform
a group of drunken layabouts into respectable magistrates, ministers, couriers, and diplomats.
System: The Solar dedicates herself to educating a group of students, subjecting them to daily
lectures and rigorous testing under her oversight, which take up at least one hour every day over
the course of two weeks. She can dedicate her efforts to the training of a group of up to Size
(current Essence rating, maximum 5) at a time. While she’s actively training a group of students,
her maximum Mote pool is reduced by one. She can reclaim this capacity by abandoning her
students’ training, but if she does this and returns to their tutelage later, she must start their
training over from scratch.
After two weeks, ignorant peasants gain an Expertise pool of 5 and an Aptitude for one of the
following: Bureaucracy, mercantilism, diplomacy, sailing, or message delivery. They also
become literate. Already-competent ministers, diplomats, sailors, and so on instead gain an
Expertise pool of 7. Experts in the Solar’s class advance to an Expertise pool of 9. A group of
students may be run through this training regimen repeatedly to hone them from total ignorance
to Wise Ministers, or to branch them out into multidisciplinary mastery, if the Solar has
sufficient time and inclination.
If a protagonist partakes of Wise Minister training, then after two weeks of training they may
purchase one dot of Bureaucracy, Linguistics, Presence, Ride, Sail, or Socialize as though it were
a Favored Ability.
